The Project Gutenberg eBook of The valley of lost herds, by W. C. Tuttle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The valley of lost herds

Author: W. C. Tuttle

Release Date: May 22, 2023 [eBook #70832]

Language: English

Produced by: Roger Frank and Sue Clark

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE VALLEY OF LOST HERDS ***

THE VALLEY OF LOST HERDS

by W. C. Tuttle

A New Kind of Ranch Foreman Deals with Cattle-Rustlers


The big Tomahawk--saloon, gambling palace, honkatonk--blazed with
lights. Cowboys jostled each other at the long bar, or laughed and made
merry with the girls who thronged the rooms. The roulette whirred, poker
chips rattled and the voices of the dealers droned above the roar of the
crowd.

It was the big night of the month in Tomahawk--pay night on the Reber
ranches. And pay night on the Reber ranches meant that all the small
ranches to the north would also pay off and let their men come to town.
There was no limit to anything. Reber owned the Tomahawk Saloon; owned
nearly everything else in the town of Tomahawk, as far as that was
concerned.

And with one exception he owned all of Reber Valley. It had been known
as Tomahawk Valley, and was still Tomahawk Valley on the map, but to
those who lived there it was Reber Valley. For Park Reber owned the M
33, Half-Wheel, Circle S, Two Bar X and the Lightning. There was really
only one ranch he did not own, the S Bar P. There was another little
place twenty miles south of Tomahawk which belonged to Jack Silver, who
had never registered any brand. So, outside of the S Bar P, Park Reber
really owned the valley.

In an area thirty miles long by about fifteen miles in width Park Reber
was supreme--a real cattle baron. And Park Reber sat in his big house in
Tomahawk town, all alone except for a Chinese cook, and gloated. He was
_the_ big man of the country--big and lonesome. And sometimes he was
mad, they said. Men worked for him, spent their money in his saloon and
gambling house; but none of them admired him.

He was about sixty years of age--white-haired, harsh of feature, his
deep-set eyes gloomy. Over his left eye was a white scar like a crescent
moon, and he often touched it, as if it annoyed him. He drove his men
hard, demanded results and got most of their wages back _via_ the green
cloth.

It had taken him twenty years to become owner of the valley.

His herds, the Diamond R brand, roamed the many hills. While his ranches
were all designated by their original brand names, all the stock was
branded with the Diamond R. Other ranches shipped from Tomahawk, but the
Diamond R was the heavy shipper. They owned the loading corrals--or
rather Reber did.

Park Reber did not come often to the Tomahawk Saloon, but he had been
coming oftener of late. Some said it was because of June Meline, the
tall, black-haired beauty who played the violin. She was not a fiddler.
There seemed a difference between June Meline and the rest of the girls
of the honkatonk. Her white skin was untouched by rouge or paint and
there was an imperious lift to her well shaped head. Nor did she mix
with the others.

Park Reber loved music and most of all he loved the wailing notes of her
violin. Often she had come to his table to talk with him. She refused
drinks, but liked to discuss with him his business troubles. Some said
she was trying to “rope-in” the old man, but Park Reber knew better. He
admired her level-headed way of looking at things.

And on this pay night Park Reber came again, taking his usual table,
where he might drink and watch the show. With him was “Slim” Patterson,
foreman of the Half-Wheel ranch. Their table was near the platform,
where the three-piece orchestra rattled out its tin-panny music.

The show was just at its height as they sat down. There was a burst of
applause as June Meline came out carrying her violin. She was dressed in
black silk, which accentuated the pallor of her skin. Only the piano
played her accompaniment, and as she lifted her violin the pianist
hesitated.

Some one had spoken a word aloud--the name of a man.

“‘Buck’ Priest!”

And there he stood, not more than six feet away from Park Reber, backed
by two of his men. It was the first time Buck Priest had ever been in
the Tomahawk Saloon. He was as old as Park Reber, possibly older. He
wore his hair long, but his thin, evil face, with the hawk-bill nose,
was smooth-shaven. He wore a silver-trimmed sombrero, buckskin shirt,
gray trousers tucked in the tops of his high-heeled boots, and around
his waist was a wide, beautifully carved leather cartridge belt
supporting a holstered Colt.

The men with him were hard-bitted cowboys--fighting men of the S Bar P.
It took nerve for Buck Priest to lead his men in among the cowboys of
the Diamond R. But Buck Priest had nerve. He had fought Park Reber until
Reber had told his men to leave the S Bar P alone.

At one time--over twenty years ago--these two men had been comrades.

It was evident that Buck Priest was drunk this night. He was not a
drinking man, but once a year Buck Priest would get drunk; and when he
got drunk, he was so cold-blooded that even his own men did not wish to
associate with him.

It seemed as if every man in the room were holding his breath. Park
Reber got slowly to his feet, and Priest laughed harshly.

“You dirty old cow thief!”

Buck Priest fairly hissed the words at Reber.

“You sneakin’ old rustler!”

No one moved; no one spoke. The two men, one on each side of Buck
Priest, were bent forward tensely, their eyes sweeping the room, ready
to draw and shoot at the first move. Park Reber’s eyes blinked angrily,
but he held still, staring at Buck Priest.

“I’m talkin’ to you, Reber,” said Priest slowly. “Callin’ you a thief.
And you ain’t gut guts enough to deny it. You’ve rustled my cows just as
long as you’re goin’ to, Reber. I’ve come into the lion’s den to tell
yuh what I think of yuh, you cow thief!”

There could be but one answer to that accusation. Reber had been a
gun-man, but of late years he had left that distinction to his hired
men. He did not wear a belt and gun, but under his left arm-pit was a
holstered Colt; and now he jerked back, reaching for this concealed gun.

It was what Buck Priest wanted, what he came there to force Park Reber
to do--reach for a gun. His hand streaked down to his thigh and whipped
up a big black-handled revolver. For a fraction of a second Park Reber’s
life was not worth a penny. Something flashed between Reber and Priest
just as Priest pulled the trigger--something that smashed against
Priest’s hand and arm, partly ruining the shot which was intended for
Park Reber’s heart.

The big gun thundered as Buck Priest jerked sidewise. Park Reber stepped
backward against his chair, tripped and fell to the floor. Priest and
his two men whirled and headed for the doorway, and the crowd gave them
plenty of room.

Men lifted Reber to his feet and then set him in a chair.

“That fiddler girl!” exclaimed one of them. “She threw her fiddle and
hit Buck Priest on the arm.”

The girl sprang from the platform and was at Park Reber’s side in a
moment, and he smiled at her. Slim Patterson ripped away the shoulder of
his coat. The room was in an uproar. No one thought of going after Buck
Priest. Some one went after a doctor, who came in a few minutes.

The bullet had struck high in Reber’s shoulder, and he was quite ill.
The doctor, skilled in gunshot cases, told him he was very lucky. Some
one had recovered the violin, but it had been walked on until it hardly
resembled an instrument. The girl looked ruefully at it, but said
nothing.

Several of the cowboys secured a cot, using it in lieu of a stretcher,
and carried Reber home; but not until he had received June Meline’s
assurance that she would act as his nurse.

“I wish you would,” said the doctor. “Nurses are hard to find out here.
And, anyway, your violin is broken.”

“I’ll buy yuh a carload,” said Reber weakly. “Don’t leave me alone with
Hop Lee and this darned doctor. I’ve got lots of room up there, June.”

And so June Meline became nurse for Park Reber. She knew little about
nursing and told Park Reber so. But he grinned painfully and told her he
didn’t know much about being shot, as far as that was concerned.

She took up her residence in the big old house, which was really a
ranchhouse, in the town. Hop Lee, the old Chinese cook, who cared for no
one except Park Reber, took to June and actually smiled at her.

It was a new sensation to Park Reber, this idea of having a woman
around. Not in nearly twenty-five years had he seen a woman in his
house. His five foremen came at irregular intervals to report to him,
and June often heard the name of Buck Priest spoken.

There was another name that caused Park Reber to curse--the name of Jack
Silver.

It seemed that Jack Silver’s name was connected with the word “rustler.”
There were two of these foreman that June did not like--Nort Jackson of
the Lightning and Dave McLeese of the Two Bar X.

Nort Jackson was tall, thin, swarthy, black of eye, and wore a weak
black mustache. He smiled at her too much, June thought. McLeese was
ruddy of skin, with cold blue eyes under huge blonde brows. His nose had
been broken across the arch and a huge scar twisted his mouth into a
leer. Reber told her McLeese had been kicked in the face by a shod
horse.

                   *       *       *       *       *

It was several days after the shooting of Reber. Up to this time he had
not mentioned Buck Priest to her. The doctor had finished dressing the
wound and had given her orders for the feeding of the patient. Reber had
been watching her closely for quite a while.

“Gettin’ tired of bein’ nurse to an old man?” he asked suddenly.

June smiled at him and shook her head.

“No, I’m not tired, Mr. Reber.”

“That’s good. I like you, June. You saved my life that night. Buck
Priest is a good shot. He meant to kill me, yuh see. You shore thought
real quick, June. You’ve got a head, girl. I’ve watched yuh around here
and I’ve talked to yuh. You’ve got sense--too much sense to be playing a
violin in a honkatonk.”

June smiled at him.

“One must eat, Mr. Reber. And you have paid me better than I could get
any other place.”

“You’ve earned it, June. I wondered how they’d take yore kind of music.
But cowboys are sentimental. I’ve seen ’em cry over yore music. Give the
average cowboy a few drinks and he’ll cry over ‘Home Sweet Home’. Yes,
they will, June. Lot’s of ’em never had a regular home; lots of ’em were
kicked out early in life--but they’ll cry, just the same.”

“I suppose,” said June, nodding.

“And you never asked me anythin’ about Buck Priest. That night he called
me a dirty cow thief, didn’t he?”

Park Reber smiled bitterly.

“Mebbe Buck was drunk. He’s hated me for years, June. Oh, I’m no angel.
I tried to run Buck out of this country. He’s a fighter. He’s not sorry
he shot me, but sorry he didn’t kill me.”

“Why didn’t you have him arrested, Mr. Reber?”

“Arrested? For shootin’ me? Why, no, June, it was an even break. My
shoulder-holster--well, it isn’t a fast draw. I’d have killed him. Oh,
he hates me! Funny, isn’t it, June? We used to be pardners--me and Buck.

“And it was all over a woman--a woman like you, June. She was like you
in lots of ways, I think. The valley wasn’t what it is now. Tomahawk was
a tradin’ post. This girl came here with her family in a covered wagon.
I was in the south end of the valley at that time, where me and Buck had
a small herd of cattle. Buck was here at the post, and met her.

“He was two days late bringing in supplies, and when he came he told me
about her. I told him he was a fool to even think of a girl. It was a
bad country to bring a girl into. The Cheyennes were unfriendly then,
and there were a lot of them in the valley. They stole cattle and
horses. It kept us busy protectin’ our herds.

“But Buck went back to the post, over thirty miles from our ranch, and
was gone five days. He was going to bring in more ammunition, but when
he came back he was drunk and had no ammunition, so I left him there and
went after it.

“And I met this girl. Her name was Janice Gray. Pretty name, eh? And she
was pretty. I found that Buck had proposed to her and she had turned him
down. Two days later we were married and went back to the ranch.”

Park Reber smiled bitterly and looked at the ceiling.

“I don’t know why she married me, June. I can see the look on Buck’s
face yet when we rode in and told him. And I had forgotten the
ammunition. He didn’t say much. Didn’t wish us happiness--just sat there
and looked at the ground. Finally he said--

“‘Park, I’ll pay you for this some day.’”

“I didn’t know what he meant at the time. He saddled his horse and rode
away. Later on he built a cabin at the forks of the river and sent two
men for half of the stock. I helped them round up all the cattle and
horses, and we divided them equally.

“But he never came near me. I heard that he said he would pay me back
for what I had done, but I did not pay any attention to what I heard. We
were happy, Janice and I. The spring came and turned into summer. There
were few settlers. The Cheyennes were gettin’ worse, but every one said
that when the winter came they’d be driven out by the deep snows and
lack of game. The deer all move over to Clear Valley in the winter,
because of the laurel, which does not grow here.

“The winter came early that season. I had cut a lot of wild hay on the
bottoms, but not enough to feed stock all winter. In October there was
three feet of snow, and it did not go off. By Christmas my hay was all
gone, and I was in a desperate condition.

“I knew that the north end of the valley was open, and there was only
one thing to try and do--to take my herd out of my range. I had one man
working for me. He was a young man by the name of Sneed--John Sneed--a
good boy. I couldn’t leave Janice alone, yuh see. There would be a baby
along soon, and some one had to stay with her. There was a doctor at the
trading post. I tell yuh, I was desperate, so I broke trail with horses
and led my cattle to the upper end of the valley. It was a tough pull. I
took them past Buck’s place, but didn’t see him. He had moved his cattle
out a few days before, and the trail was open from there.

“I had to bring those half-starved cattle almost up to here, where I
threw them in with Buck’s cattle, and came on to the post. It was bitter
cold that night I rode in, but it warmed up a little, and by morning the
worst blizzard that ever swept this country came down through here.

“This whole valley was a howling hell of wind and snow, June. I don’t
suppose our cattle lasted one night. You couldn’t see a man at your
elbow. A man couldn’t live in it. Twenty below and a fifty-mile gale. I
swore I’d go home, but they stopped me. It lasted five days.

“And when the wind died down the temperature died with it, until the
thermometer at the post froze. Then we started for my place, the doctor
and me, traveling on snowshoes. The valley was a place of the dead.
There was not even a rabbit-track. Our cattle were under the drifts.

“There was some one at Buck’s cabin. We could see a thread of smoke from
his chimney; the rest of the cabin was buried in the snow. But there was
no smoke from my chimney.”

Park Reber shut his eyes, and for a while June thought he had fallen
asleep. Then:

“No, there was no smoke, June; the cabin was empty. We dug our way down
to the door and went in. There was John Sneed, lying face down in the
middle of the room--dead. His head had been cut open--his scalp taken.
The Cheyennes had been there. The doctor said he had been dead quite a
while. I think they had been there ahead of the blizzard.

“I don’t remember just what I did, June. They told me that I went
hunting for the Cheyenne camp; I don’t remember. Later I went back to
the post and spent the winter. In the spring I went to the Cheyennes and
tried to find some trace of my wife, but it was useless. They treated me
like a crazy man--and I reckon I was. Later on I went further north and
opened a saloon in a new mining camp. It was a money-maker, and in two
years I came back here and went into cattle again.

“Buck was still here; still hatin’ me. We met one day and he taunted me
with my loss. I tried to kill him with my hands and almost succeeded. It
didn’t help any. Buck Priest ain’t the kind you can whip into
friendship.

“And I think he hates me for being successful. I own practically all of
the Valley. They call it Reber’s Valley. That must hurt Buck Priest. I
tried to buy him out, but he wouldn’t sell. He shot my cattle when they
came on his range, and I--I shot his cattle on my range.

“Oh, it’s been a battle for years. Finally I gave my men orders to let
him and his cattle alone. It seemed to be a mutual truce. But my cattle
have disappeared. I don’t think Buck Priest took them.”

“Who is Jack Silver?” asked June.

Reber looked curiously at her.

“Jack Silver?”

“Yes, I heard his name spoken, Mr. Reber.”

“Jack Silver,” mused Reber. “A handsome devil of a breed, June. He’s
tall, graceful--too smart for my men. He comes to Tomahawk. He’s not
afraid of me. Half Cheyenne. There are no Cheyennes in the Valley now,
June. Uncle Sam keeps ’em on a reservation. But Jack Silver lives back
on Trapper Creek, twenty miles southwest of here. We’ve tried to catch
him stealing my cattle, but he eludes us.

“McLeese of the Two Bar X and Nort Jackson of the Lightnin’ have trailed
him for weeks; and Slim Patterson has tried to trap him, but he’s too
clever. He’s got the cunning of the Cheyenne, the brain of a white man.”

June sat in an old rocker, her chin resting on the palm of her right
hand, as she thought over Reber’s story. It was the first time she had
ever heard the reasons for Buck Priest’s hatred of Park Reber.

“How many head of cattle has Jack Silver stolen from you?” she asked.

Reber shook his head slowly.

“Who knows, June? More than I care to lose.”

He smiled at the thoughtful expression on her face.

“What would you do if you was in my place, June?”

“I was just thinking,” said June, “that if I were in your place I’d hire
Jack Silver to work for me.”

Reber frowned quickly. “Hire him to--”

“Why not? You’d save money--and he would be worth what you paid him,
wouldn’t he?”

“I never thought of that, June.”

They were interrupted by Hop Lee, who came in and told Reber that Slim
Patterson of the Half-Wheel was waiting to see him. June left the room
when Patterson came in.

“How’re yuh comin’?” asked Slim, sitting down in the chair June had
vacated.

“All right,” said Reber. “Be out in a day or so.”

“Good! Say, I was back between Trapper Creek and the West Fork yesterday
and I found about a hundred cows bunched in a draw back there. It shore
looked as though somebody was all set for a drive. Me and ‘Chuck’ Avery
laid there until night waitin’ for somebody to show up, but they didn’t.

“I left Chuck there and went home. Sent ‘Biddy’ Conley and Abe Lehman
out to keep him company and pulled out for here this mornin’, after
Biddy came in and said they hadn’t seen anybody yet.”

Reber sighed wearily.

“I dunno, Slim,” he said slowly. “I talked with McLeese the other day
and he suggested that we post men in that Trapper Creek pass. It might
be a good scheme. They can’t get past the Two Bar X into West Fork pass
without bein’ seen by some of the boys, and those are the only two ways
out, except past here.

“I’ll tell yuh what I want yuh to do, Slim. Send about three of yore men
to Trapper Creek pass, and then pack a message to Jackson, McLeese,
Franks and Carlin to be here at my place tomorrow night, and you come
with ’em. I’ve got a scheme to stop Jack Silver.”

“You have? That’s fine.”

Slim got to his feet and picked up his hat.

“I’ll pass the word to the boys for tomorrow night. Heard anythin’ more
of Buck Priest?”

“Not a word, Slim. Have you?”

“Only that he says yo’re stealin’ his cows. I think he’s tryin’ to
excuse himself for shootin’ yuh.”

Reber smiled slowly, and Slim went out.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The S Bar P ranchhouse and other buildings were of log construction,
rambling old structures one story in height. The ranchhouse and
bunk-house had the old mud-and-stone fire-places. Back of the stables
was Porcupine Creek, which ran northwest to Tomahawk River. It was about
six miles from the ranch to Tomahawk town.

It was the day after Reber had sent the message to his foremen when Jack
Silver rode in at the S Bar P ranch. He rode a tall black gelding, a
fitting mount for a man of his physique.

Silver was tall, lithe, dark-skinned. He wore his hair long, but his
face was smooth-shaven. His shirt was black, as were his muffler and
sombrero, and he wore no chaps. His high-heeled boots were of the
short-topped Southwest style, and around his waist was a hand-made
cartridge belt supporting a Colt gun in a hand-made holster.

He swung off his horse, waving a greeting to three of Buck Priest’s men
who were down near the corrals. Priest met him at the door of the
ranchhouse and they shook hands warmly.

“How are yuh, Jack?” asked Priest, as they sat down in the main room of
the ranchhouse.

“I’m fine,” replied Silver. “Been over in Clear Valley for a week and
just got back. Ran into Dave McLeese yesterday and he told me about you
and Reber havin’ a fight.”

Priest scowled heavily and slapped the palm of his right hand on his
knee.

“I tried to kill him, Jack. A girl ruined the shot.”

Silver smiled, showing a flash of white, even teeth.

“A girl, eh? McLeese didn’t tell me about her.”

“A fiddler in the Tomahawk,” said Priest. “Flung her fiddle and hit me
in the hand. Oh, I was goin’ to kill him, Jack. Reber and his gang of
cutthroats are runnin’ all the S Bar P cattle out of the valley.”

“I thought there was sort of a truce.”

“Truce!” Priest laughed shortly. “Reber sent me word that he’d quit if I
would. I quit, Jack. But he didn’t. The only way I can ever make Park
Reber quit is to kill him. Next time there won’t be any fiddle-throwin’
female present.”

Jack Silver laughed softly.

“You know what they think of me, Buck. I’m watched every minute by
Reber’s men. Why, I can’t even kill a piece of fresh meat any more.
They’re layin’ for a chance to kill me. Some day they’ll put up a job on
me--and I’ll swing for it.

“Oh, they’re nice to my face--McLeese, Jim Carlin, Nort Jackson--all
nice to my face. Behind my back they call me the dirty half-breed--the
Injun rustler. I trap for a livin’, Buck. You know that. Reber hates me
because I’m half Cheyenne.”

Buck Priest smiled crookedly, nodding slowly.

“There’s plenty of hate in this valley, Jack. I hope some day to see
Park Reber suffer.”

“He ought to be half Injun,” said Silver bitterly. “That’s enough
sufferin’ for one man. Last night he sent word to me by one of the
Half-Wheel punchers to be at his place tonight.”

“He sent word to you?”

“Yeah.”

“Wants to trap yuh, eh?”

Silver shrugged his shoulders.

“I played safe, Buck. Today I came across the hills and I’ll stay here
until dark. I don’t know what Reber wants.”

“He’s still crippled, and that girl is nursin’ him. She’s makin’ a play
for Reber.”

“Pretty girl, Buck?”

Priest nodded.

“Yeah, pretty as a picture. But what do yuh suppose Reber wants of you?”

“I dunno.”

“Are you goin’ to take a chance on him, Jack?”

“I’ll see what he wants.”

“It might be a scheme to harm yuh, Jack.”

“Might be. But as far as that’s concerned, if they want to kill me they
can pick me off most any time.”

“That’s true,” agreed Priest. “We’ll all ride in after supper, Jack. If
things go wrong, we’ll do what we can.”

“And if Reber finds you in town he’ll set his dogs on yuh,” said Silver
grimly.

“I’ll have my dogs along,” replied Buck meaningly. “We went into the
Tomahawk and came out safe enough. But I was drunk, Jack. It wasn’t a
job for a sober man. We sure shocked that gang a-plenty.”

“I wish I had been there,” smiled Jack. “I’ve never been in the
Tomahawk.”

“It’s not a safe place, Jack; and maybe you’ll find it out tonight.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

None of Reber’s foremen knew why he had sent for them. Some of them were
obliged to ride the length of the valley, but they were all
there--Patterson, Jackson, McLeese, Carlin and Franks. McLeese was
drunk; not blind drunk by any manner of means, but inclined to be
quarrelsome.

Park Reber was out of bed, and met them in the big living-room, a huge
place forty feet long and twenty-five feet wide. Around two sides of
this huge room was a wide veranda. At one end was a doorway leading out
on to the veranda; and there was another doorway about fifteen feet from
the corner, on the side. About midway of the room was a big window, and
there were two windows at the front end.

Across this front end of the room was a long table and a number of
chairs. On the opposite side of the room from the side entrance was a
huge fireplace, capable of taking ten-foot logs. Most of the furnishings
were of the home-made variety, and the floors were strewn with
bright-colored Navajo rugs and the skins of wolf and grizzly. The walls
were darkened with smoke and age.

The five foremen came in together. Reber seated them around the big
table, he himself sitting at the head of the table, still a trifle pale,
unable to use his left arm. At his right sat June Meline. She received
several undisguised scowls. Beside her sat Franks of the M 33. At the
opposite end of the table sat McLeese, scowling at everybody, and June
in particular. He did not like the idea of having a woman at their
conference. On the other side of the table sat Patterson, Jackson and
Carlin.

Reber’s glance swept around the table and came to rest on McLeese.

“You’re drunk,” he said shortly. “Why?”

McLeese grimaced and tried to laugh it off, but Reber’s eyes bored into
him and he coughed a little.

“I wanted sober men at this meetin’,” said Reber.

“I’m sober enough to know what I’m doin’,” said McLeese.

“Not if you had three drinks--and you’ve had more.”

Reber did not wait for McLeese to reply, but turned to the others.

“I brought you boys here tonight to see if we can’t figure out some way
to stop this rustlin’,” he said slowly. “We’re losin’ too many cattle to
suit me. What’s to be done?”

Patterson shook his head.

“I dunno, Park,” he said slowly. “It beats me.”

“How about you, Jackson?”

“Same as Slim.”

“Same here,” growled Carlin.

“They ain’t hit my place,” said Franks of the M 33. “Mebbe I’m too far
north.”

“That may be,” nodded Reber. “But it’s got to stop.”

“Go out and stop old Buck Priest,” said McLeese.

Reber studied McLeese’s flushed face.

“You think they’re runnin’ ’em out this end of the valley, Mac?”

“Priest hates yuh, don’t he? They’re not goin’ over the West Fork pass,
and the boys have been watchin’ the Trapper Creek pass. Jack Silver is
friendly to Buck Priest. By ----, I’d wipe out that whole ---- gang.”

“There’s a lady present,” said Reber coldly.

“I forgot,” said McLeese. “Anyway, I don’t think this is any place for a
woman.”

“I asked her to be here,” said Reber. “When I want yore opinion on that
I’ll ask for it, McLeese!”

“I’m jist wonderin’ if McLeese’s idea ain’t worth quite a lot, at that,”
said Jackson. “I don’t mean about the lady, but about Priest and Silver.
We’ve tried to trap Silver a lot of times, but he’s too much Injun to be
trapped.”

“He’s smart,” said McLeese.

“Too smart for you, eh?” asked Reber.

“Oh, I dunno,” flared McLeese.

“You haven’t landed him, and that’s the answer,” said Reber. “He’s too
smart. He thinks twice while you’re thinkin’ once. And you object to
this lady being here. She’s got more sense in a minute than you’ll ever
show, McLeese.”

Both June and McLeese flushed, but for different reasons.

The rest of the men eyed June closely. Perhaps they thought Reber was
getting old and that this pretty girl was in a position to get a hand
into the Reber fortune. It was an embarrassing position for the girl.
McLeese laughed, and they saw Reber’s lips tighten. Carlin kicked at
McLeese’s ankle beneath the table, but only succeeded in kicking a leg
of the table.

“We’re not gettin’ anywhere,” said Reber coldly.

“No, and we’ll not get anywhere as long as you’ll let Jack Silver and
Buck Priest do as they please,” growled Carlin. “Let’s clean ’em out, I
say.”

“On what evidence, Carlin?”

“General principles. Buck tried to kill you. He’ll try it again. Silver
is a half-breed thief. Just pass the word and we’ll rid the valley of
the whole brood.”

“Meanin’,” said Reber slowly, “that Silver is too smart for you to catch
red-handed, eh?”

“If yuh want to put it that way--yes.”

“You think he bunches up cattle and takes ’em through the Trapper Creek
pass and sells ’em in Clear Valley?”

“Cinch. We can’t get any evidence in Clear Valley. We’ve tried it often
enough.”

“That gang over there will take stolen cattle, that’s a cinch,” said
Jackson. “You’d never get any evidence if yuh went there in a gang--and
one or two men would soon be wiped out. They’re pretty clannish.”

Reber nodded slowly. He knew Jackson was right. Suddenly there came the
slither of a moving body, and they turned toward the big window about
ten feet beyond them. Just inside the window stood Jack Silver, his left
shoulder resting against the wall, his two thumbs hooked over his belt.

For several moments no one spoke. Silver laughed, and his teeth flashed
white in the light from the hanging lamp in the center of the room. He
seemed to be resting lazily against that shoulder, but every man at that
table knew he could draw and shoot quicker than any of them.

“Gentlemen, Mr. Silver himself,” said Reber slowly.

The men glanced at Reber curiously, but turned back to Silver.

“You sent for me,” said Jack.

Reber nodded.

“Yeah, I sent for yuh, Silver. Slim, will you get a chair for Mr.
Silver?”

Slim Patterson started to get up, but Silver halted him.

“I’ll stand up,” he said slowly, smiling again. “Since when did the
Reber outfits start havin’ squaws at their council?”

June straightened in her chair, her eyes flashing. Silver’s laugh was
almost an insult. Reber did not look at her. McLeese grinned in evident
enjoyment.

“Silver,” said Reber firmly, “you’re deliberately tryin’ to antagonize
us, but I’ll overlook it. I asked you here tonight to make you a
proposition. Will you go to work for me as a foreman on one of my
ranches?”

It was like a bomb-shell exploding in the room. The idea of offering
Jack Silver a position as foreman! The men wondered whether Reber was
losing his mind. Even Silver laughed.

“Make me a foreman?” said Silver. “What’s the idea, Reber?”

“That’s my business, Silver. I’m makin’ you that offer.”

Silver’s eyes swept the faces of the five foremen.

“Which ranch?” he asked smiling.

“Any one you’ll take.”

Silver’s amused glance came back to June.

“Which one is the squaw goin’ to take?”

Reber shook his head sadly.

“You don’t understand what I’m offerin’ you, Silver.”

“Yes, I do, Reber.”

Silver was not smiling now and he had shoved away from the wall.

“You’re tryin’ to buy me off--tryin’ to get me to work for you. You’re
afraid of me, Reber. I dunno why, but yuh are. Your men watch me day and
night. I’m tired of it, but not so tired that I’ll take a job with you.
You hate me because I’m half Cheyenne.

“You ran my people out of Tomahawk Valley, Reber. I know your
story--know why you hate my people. I had a little herd of cattle
started, but you and your men killed ’em off to keep me from being a
cattleman. I’ve no cause to love you. I don’t want your job. Give it to
the squaw.”

He flung his left leg across the windowsill, and before any one could
say anything further, he disappeared. Patterson sprang to his feet, and
the other men were behind him, but Reber stopped them.

“Sit down,” he ordered. “He’s done no wrong.”

“The dirty half-breed!” snarled McLeese.

June Meline was on her feet, her hands on the table, as she leaned
forward, staring at the window where Silver had disappeared. He had
taunted her, called her a squaw! But there was something romantically
wild about this tall, slim, white-toothed young man who defied them. He
had laughed at them and refused to work for Park Reber.

“The trouble is,” Reber was speaking, “yo’re all afraid of Jack Silver.”

June turned quickly to Reber.

“I’m not,” she declared.

Reber smiled at her.

“You’re not, June?”

“Not a bit. I’ll bet I could trap him.”

Several of the men laughed aloud.

“He’d steal you,” declared McLeese, and then laughed at his own
statement.

“You think you could, eh?” said Reber slowly. “I wonder.”

“Ridiculous,” declared Jackson.

Reber leaned on the table looking at June, studying her keenly. Suddenly
he struck the table with his clenched fist.

“I’ll do it!” he exclaimed. “June, beginnin’ tomorrow you’ll be a
ranch-foreman for the Diamond R.”

He looked around at the hard-bitted faces of his men, who were looking
at him, wondering whether he was in his right mind.

“What ranch?” asked McLeese.

Reber shifted his eyes to McLeese.

“The Two Bar X.”

McLeese’s ranch. He shut his jaws tightly and looked at Reber. He knew
it meant that Reber was going to fire him.

“That’s a ---- of a note!” he snorted.

“I run my ranches to suit myself, McLeese.”

Reber reached in his pocket and took out a wallet, from which he counted
out several bills. He handed them to McLeese.

“That’s yore pay up to the first of the month, McLeese.”

“And I’m through right now, eh?”

“Yeah, right now.”

“All right,” McLeese got to his feet unsteadily. “I’ve got some personal
stuff at the ranch and I’ll go get it.”

Reber nodded, and they watched McLeese leave the house. None of the
other men made any comment. For several moments after McLeese was gone
Reber stared silently at the door. Then:

“I think that’s all boys. Goodnight.”

He got to his feet and June walked from the room with him. The men
looked curiously at him, and went out.

“I need a shot of liquor,” said Patterson dryly. “Personally, I think
the old man is losin’ his mind.”

“He’s as crazy as a bedbug!” snapped Carlin. “Offers a job to Jack
Silver, and then gives it to a ---- woman! I’ll take a drink with yuh.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Park Reber wanted to go with June to the Two Bar X ranch the next day,
but the old doctor vetoed such a move on the part of his patient. Reber
was far from well. There was none of his men in from the ranches, so he
sent Jud Nelson and Sam Heard, two of his men who worked in Tomahawk, to
accompany June.

These men did not know why June was going to the ranch, nor did they ask
Reber. They loaded June and her baggage into a light wagon, kicked off
the brake and drove out of town. It was nearly thirty miles to the Two
Bar X, and the roads were none too good. June occupied the back seat,
and with the rattle and lurch of the vehicle there was little
opportunity for conversation. The two men devoted themselves exclusively
to chewing tobacco and keeping the wagon on the road.

At the forks of the river, about twelve miles south of town, they saw
Slim Patterson and two of his cowboys. The road passed close to the
Half-Wheel ranchhouse. Slim waved at them, but they did not stop. They
took the right-hand road, which led to the Two Bar X. There were no
bridges, and the river crossings were almost deep enough to float the
wagon.

About three miles south of the Half-Wheel ranch they passed the mouth of
Trapper Creek, One of the men told her it was Trapper Creek, and she
knew that Jack Silver’s place was somewhere between the West Fork and
the mountains.

June was still in somewhat of a daze over her new job. She didn’t know a
thing about cattle; she knew nothing about running a ranch. But Reber
had told her merely to use her head. He was the real head of all the
ranches, and he would see that she learned the game. Not that Reber
intended keeping her at the Two Bar X. He was not crazy. But he was
willing to grasp at any straw to stop the cattle rustling. If June could
figure out a way to trap Silver it would be worth many dollars to the
Diamond R and he was going to give her a chance.

He knew the temper of his men, knew that the majority of them were
against the idea of hiring a woman. But he did feel that any of them
would support any scheme she might formulate to stop the wholesale
stealing of his cattle.

They had just passed the mouth of Trapper Creek and were traveling
through a willow patch in the river bottom, near a ford, when the driver
suddenly jerked up his team, almost throwing June off the seat. She had
a confused impression of the team’s twisting sidewise, of a man yelling
a warning, of the sound of a shot.

She flung out her right hand, grasping the back of the front seat to
steady herself. Sam Herd was sprawling forward, as if looking down over
the left front wheel, and he suddenly slid ahead limply and slithered
over the wheel to the ground.

Jud Nelson’s two hands were in the air. Two masked men had turned their
horses in close to the wagon. They were wearing empty flour sacks over
their heads, with holes cut in them for eyes. One of them looked down at
Herd.

“That’s one less for Reber,” he growled behind his mask.

The one man kept a rifle trained on Nelson, while the other dismounted,
climbed up and removed Nelson’s revolver.

June’s face was pale, but she kept her nerve when this masked man turned
to her.

“Git out of the wagon,” he ordered gruffly.

There was nothing else for her to do. These men had killed one man
already. She climbed down and he indicated his horse.

“Climb on.”

She looked at Nelson, who was looking straight ahead, his lips
compressed tightly, both hands held rigidly above his head. June could
ride. She climbed into the saddle, hampered by her skirts, and the other
bandit laughed.

“Good lookin’ squaw,” he observed.

The other man turned and walked around the wagon to where Herd’s body
lay. He picked him up, carried him to the rear of the wagon and dumped
him unceremoniously over the tailgate into the wagon-box. He came back
and motioned to Nelson.

“Turn around and drive back,” he said hoarsely. “Take all the time yuh
need. A little hurry might ruin yore health.”

“And yuh might tell old Reber that he ain’t runnin’ this valley yet a
while,” added the other. “The road from here to Tomahawk won’t be
healthy for him and his men, so they don’t need to blame us if they git
what this feller got.”

Nelson nodded. He was more than willing to get away with a whole skin.
He managed to turn the team around in the willows, and started back,
holding the team to a slow walk.

The man mounted behind June, but before they started out he blindfolded
her with a none too clean handkerchief.

Then they rode out of the river bottom, forded the river and headed into
the hills. June knew this, because the horse was climbing most of the
way. There was no conversation. The bandit guided the horse, with an arm
on each side of June. He had been drinking, but not enough to give him
more than a whisky breath.

It seemed to June that they had been riding about an hour, when the
horses fairly slid downward for considerable distance, traveled along
for a while on level ground and stopped. The men dismounted and lifted
June off the saddle, guiding her into a cabin, where they removed the
blindfold.

It was a small log cabin, crudely furnished, with a dirt floor. It
smelled musty in there. June blinked painfully as she looked around at
the two men. One of them secured a length of lariat-rope with which he
roped her tightly to a chair. He knew how to knot ropes, and when he was
finished there was no possible way for June to escape. The other man
inspected the knots and nodded his approval.

“That’s the old Injun knot,” he growled. “No squaw ever wiggled loose
from one like that.”

The other laughed.

“You’ll stay here quite a while,” he told June. “No use to yelp. There
ain’t a man within miles of here. When Jack Silver does a job, he does
it well. Park Reber can hunt and be ---- to him, but he’ll never find
yuh. We’re goin’ away, but we’ll be back tonight some time and bring
some feed for yuh.”

They turned abruptly and left the cabin, closing the door behind them.
June heard the creak of their saddles and the sound of the horses
walking away. She tried to loosen her bonds, but she soon found that
there was nothing to do but to sit and wait.

She wanted to cry, to scream for help. But she knew that it would not
help matters in the least. She was going to need all her nerve. She
wondered what Park Reber would do. What could he do, she wondered? It
might take them weeks to find her. Jack Silver had outwitted him again.

She wondered whether one of these men was Silver. Neither looked like
the man who had taunted her. They were not so tall and slim as Silver.

It was, possibly, thirty minutes after the departure of the two men when
she heard the soft _plop-plop_ of a horse’s hoofs. She listened
intently. The horse had stopped near the cabin door, and she heard a
footstep.

Suddenly the door was flung open and a man stood in the opening--a tall,
slender man. She was looking against the light and could not see his
features, but she knew it was Jack Silver.

He came slowly in and stood looking down at her.

“Reber’s squaw, eh?” he said softly.

June shut her lips tightly, refusing to reply. He walked back to the
door and looked around. Beyond him she could see his tall black horse
looking toward him. Finally he came back to her and began taking off the
ropes.

It did not take him long to unfasten her hands, and then he dropped to
his knees beside her, fumbling with the knots beneath the chair. It was
her big chance, and she had the nerve to take advantage of it.

Leaning slightly toward him she reached down and quickly whipped the
six-shooter from his holster and shoved the muzzle against his neck.
June knew guns. The hammer came to full cock from a twist of her thumb.

Jack Silver did not look up, but his hands came away from the rope. He
did not move, but waited for her to act.

“Unfasten that rope,” she ordered, and was surprized to find her voice
fairly steady.

Silver unfastened the remaining rope, and she got to her feet, backing
away from him.

“Now I’ve got you,” she said hoarsely.

“Looks thataway,” he said slowly. “I hope yuh know that trigger only
pulls about a pound.”

“I am not interested in trigger pulls, Mr. Silver.”

“Possibly not. I am.”

June picked up the loose rope with her left hand, keeping an eye on
Silver, and then motioned for him to precede her out of the cabin. He
made no objection, but his eyes were just a little curious.

June tossed him the looped end of the rope.

“Put it around your neck,” she ordered.

He shut his lips tightly and studied her intently. She had the gun at
her hip now, and the hammer was still cocked. He shrugged his shoulders
and smiled thinly.

“Single-handed lynchin’?” he asked.

June shook her head firmly.

“I’m not your judge, Jack Silver. But you’re going to guide me to the
Two Bar X ranch, you know. You’ll walk ahead with the rope around your
neck and I’ll ride your horse.”

Jack Silver laughed softly as he put the loop around his neck.

“So that’s your game, eh?” he said amusedly. “You’ve got a lot of nerve
for a woman. I never knew that pretty women had nerve. That’s how yuh
won old man Reber, eh? Pretty girl with plenty nerve. Oh, he’s worth
winnin’. He’s got nobody to leave his money to--no relatives. And he’s
got plenty money. I heard he had made you a foreman.”

Silver threw back his head and laughed.

June had a notion to yank the loop tight and choke off that laugh.

“You’ll laugh different when I get you to the Two Bar X,” she promised
him.

He sobered suddenly.

“That’s right,” he said quickly. “They don’t like me. But what I’d like
to know is what you were doing in this cabin all tied up like that?”

“How did you know I was in that cabin?” she retorted.

“I didn’t. I saw two men riding away from here, so I came to
investigate. Where most men are my enemies, I kinda look at things, yuh
know.”

“You lie!”

Silver’s eyes narrowed with sudden anger.

“You know you lie,” said June hotly. “You and your men knew I was going
to the Two Bar X today. You had them stop us, and they killed a man--Sam
Herd. You had them bring me to this place. That’s how you knew I was
here. Now I’m going to take you to the Two Bar X and turn you over to
the men. You’re responsible for the death of Sam Herd, and if Park
Reber’s men don’t hang you the law will!”

Silver turned his head away and stared off across the hills.

“Your men won’t be back for quite a while so you don’t need to look for
them,” said June. “How far is it to the Two Bar X?”

“About three miles,” said Silver slowly. “You better let the hammer down
on that gun before yuh mount. Don’t be afraid of that horse--he’s gentle
enough. Compadre! Stand still and let the squaw get on.”

June managed to get into the saddle without tangling up the rope. She
did not dare take her eyes off Silver, and she did not uncock the
revolver. June was taking no chances.

“Now you take me straight to the Two Bar X ranch,” she ordered, “and
don’t try any tricks.”

“You are a very, very smart young lady,” he said seriously. “And I am
not going to try and trick yuh.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

About the time that June and Jack Silver were leaving for the Two Bar X
ranch, a rider came through the gate of the S Bar P; a rider who swayed
down along the fork of his saddle, a limp arm hanging on each side of
the horse’s neck.

The rider was Harry O’Steen, one of Buck Priest’s men--a red-headed,
freckled cowboy; a laughing, rollicking sort of person, whose
disposition did much to keep up the morale of the S Bar P.

Buck Priest was sitting on the ranchhouse porch talking with “Rowdy”
Dow, another of his cowboys, when the horse came in. They could see at a
glance that O’Steen had been hurt, and both of them ran down to him.
They eased him to the ground and then carried him to the shade of the
porch.

“Been shot twice,” declared Rowdy. “Gawd A’mighty, he’s all shot to
strings!”

Buck Priest nodded shortly and knelt beside O’Steen, who was trying to
talk. Rowdy ran through the house and came back with a dipper of water,
which he held to O’Steen’s lips. Ken Mader and Dick Leeson, the two
other cowboys, came from the bunk-house and joined them.

“Can yuh talk, Harry?” asked Buck anxiously. “Who shot yuh?”

O’Steen struggled painfully, trying to say something. It came in a jerky
sentence--

“Rustlers--got--me--Porcupine--Creek--”

That was all. He closed his eyes, twitched slightly. Buck got to his
feet, his old face twisted.

“Uh-huh,” he said softly. “Rustlers got him on Porcupine Creek, boys.
Help me carry him in the house. That’s more of Park Reber’s work.”

They placed the body of O’Steen on a cot and covered it up with a
bright-colored blanket.

“Saddle up,” ordered Priest. “Take yore rifles along. We’re goin’ to
Tomahawk and talk to Park Reber with the only language he understands.
He’s goin’ to pay for killin’ O’Steen.”

“That’s the talk,” said Rowdy. “We’ll wipe his town off the map.”

“Four men may not be able to do that, Rowdy,” said Buck Priest wearily,
“but we’ll do what we can.”

Ten minutes later the four men galloped from the S Bar P, heading for
Tomahawk town. The sun was almost down, and they wanted to get there
before dark. About two miles from the ranch the road intersected with
the main road, and as the four riders swept around the point of a hill
they saw a team and light wagon coming from the south.

They were close enough to see that the driver was Nelson, one of Reber’s
men. They drew rein and waited for the wagon to reach them. Priest swung
his horse across the road ahead of the team, forcing them to stop.

“Hyah, Nelson,” said Priest coldly.

“Howdy, gentlemen,” nodded Nelson. “I’m sure glad to see somebody. I
stopped at the Half-Wheel, but there wasn’t nobody at home. Me and Sam
Herd was takin’ that girl to the Two Bar X and we got held up. Sam tried
to draw a gun, and they killed him. And they put the girl on a horse and
took her away. Sam’s in the back of the wagon.”

Rowdy spurred his horse around the wagon and looked in.

“He’s here all right, Buck,” he said.

“Where’d this all happen?”

“Near the mouth of Trapper. Down in them willers, jist before yuh reach
the ford. Two men, Priest. They had sacks over their heads.”

Priest backed his horse off the road and motioned for Nelson to drive
on.

“Ain’t we goin’?” asked Rowdy.

Buck Priest watched the wagon disappear up the road.

“I don’t know what to make of it,” he said. “Sam Herd was one of Park
Reber’s trusted men. And they stole that girl, eh? That’s funny. We’re
goin’ back home, boys. No use goin’ off half-cocked, I reckon. We’ll
pack up some grub and blankets and swing in on the Porcupine. It must
have been kinda late when O’Steen was shot, and the rustlers can’t move
cattle much after dark.”

They turned and rode back to the ranch.

                   *       *       *       *       *

In the meantime Nelson lost no time in driving his jaded horses to
Tomahawk town. It was dark when he arrived, and he went straight to
Reber’s house, where he found Reber with the old doctor. Nelson blurted
out his story as quickly as possible. He helped the doctor carry Herd’s
body into the house, and the doctor found that Herd had been killed
almost instantly.

Reber, still weak from his wound, sat down in a chair and swore
impotently.

“Just for that I’ll wipe Buck Priest and Jack Silver off the map,” he
declared bitterly. “You say you met Priest and his men? They circled
back to see if you got help at the Half-Wheel. Oh, I know Buck Priest!”

“Only one of ’em looked in at the body,” said Nelson.

“They knew it was there. Oh, I’ll make Priest pay. It was either Priest
or Silver--perhaps both. They work together. Nelson, go to the Tomahawk
and see if any of my men are in from the ranches. Bring them here to me.
Wait! Send them here. You get a horse and ride for the Half-Wheel. Don’t
spare the horse. Tell Slim Patterson what happened. Then you go to the
Circle S and tell Jim Carlin to bring his outfit to the Half-Wheel and
to send a man to the Lightnin’ for Jackson and his crew. We’ll all meet
at the Half-Wheel.”

Nelson ran from the house, and the old doctor turned to Reber.

“You’ll not ride tonight,” he said firmly.

“You try to stop me, Doc.”

“Hm-m-m-m! You’re a fool, Park. That wound isn’t healed up. You’ll wreck
your health, I tell you.”

“Bah! Wreck my health! I’m goin’ out to find that girl and to whip all
this scum out of the valley. I’ve stood all I’ll ever stand from Priest
and Silver.”

“It was a foolish thing, that sending of a woman,” said the old doctor.
He had known Park Reber for years, and felt privileged to speak his
mind.

“Mebbe,” said Reber shortly. “Mebbe not. She’s smart, Doc. I wish she
was my daughter. If things had turned out different I might have had a
girl or a boy of about her age.”

“Yes, that’s true.”

“And she spoiled Buck Priest’s shot,” said Reber. “He’s got no love for
her. I wonder where these men would take her? Not to any known place,
that’s a cinch. She’s their ace in the hole. I’d like to get my two
hands around Buck Priest’s throat and choke the truth from him. Oh, he
hates me, Doc!

“When he looks at me with his lop-sided grin, I feel that he’s gloating
over somethin’.”

“Be calm,” advised the doctor. “You’ll work yourself into a fever. Did
any doctor ever have such a patient to contend with? That meeting almost
ruined everything; and now you insist on getting excited and riding
helter-skelter over the hills in the dark! I ought to tie you down.”

“Here come some of my men,” said Reber. “Now you keep your tongue out of
it, Doc. I’m goin’, if I have to go on a stretcher.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

It was almost dark when Jack Silver led the way to the Two Bar X. There
were no lights in the ranchhouse. June dismounted and forced Jack to
knock on the door. But there was no answer to his knock. The door was
unlocked. Without any orders from June, Jack lighted the big lamp in the
main room.

“Where is everybody?” wondered June. “Is this the Two Bar X?”

“It’s the Two Bar X all right,” said Jack.

His heels were sore from the long walk in high-heeled boots and he
limped painfully.

June pointed at a door across the room.

“Open that,” she ordered.

Jack limped over and opened it.

It was a windowless inside room, evidently used as a bedroom by some one
who cared little for ventilation. There was a small lamp on the table,
and June ordered Jack to light it. She told him to remove the rope, and
then she backed into the main room, closing the door behind her.

At some time the room must have been used for storage purposes, because
there was a hasp and staple fastener. June quickly locked the door,
after which she sat down in a chair and drew the first calm breath she
had taken since Jack Silver had entered the deserted cabin. There was no
way for him to get out of that room. She took a small lamp and went on a
tour of investigation. The kitchen was fairly clean and there was plenty
of food.

She cooked a meal for herself, but was afraid to take any of it to
Silver. She had him under lock and intended keeping him. She felt sure
that the men of the Two Bar X would be coming back soon. Perhaps, she
thought, they heard of what happened to her and were searching for her.

And what a surprize it would be for them to come back and find her
there, and to find Jack Silver a prisoner. She washed the dishes and
went back to the main room. It was very quiet. A new moon was peeping
over the crest of the Tomahawk range, and she heard the distant howling
of a coyote.

She put Jack Silver’s gun on the table beside her and sat down to look
at some old magazines. Suddenly she heard the muffled tread of horses
walking and thought it was the boys of the ranch coming home. She ran to
a front window and looked out, but could see no one.

For several minutes she stood at the window, but the half-light was
baffling. She went back and sat down, after deciding that it had been
some loose horses. But something made her feel that she was being
watched. Perhaps it was sort of sixth sense.

She found herself unable to read. The two dull, uncurtained windows
seemed to stare at her like a pair of eyes. Why didn’t they curtain
their windows, she wondered? There were noises, too--queer noises.

Suddenly there came the scrape of leather sole on the porch, and the
door was flung open. June jerked forward, her hand on the big gun.

Two men stepped inside, looking queerly at her. It was McLeese, the
deposed foreman, and Chuck Bell, a big, raw-boned, square-faced cowboy
who worked for the Two Bar X. McLeese glanced at the hand and gun on the
table.

“Yuh got here, eh?” he said easily. “That’s fine. I was kinda late
gettin’ here for my stuff. Where’s all the boys?”

“I don’t know,” said June. “I haven’t been here long.”

“Uh-huh,” nodded McLeese. “I suppose they’re late gettin’ in. Well, I’ll
gather up my stuff and head back for town. Did yuh come out alone?”

“Two men brought me,” said June.

She didn’t want to tell McLeese anything, because she didn’t trust him.

“And went back and left yuh alone, eh? Dirty trick. This is a lonesome
place for a girl, Miss Meline. If yuh want us to, we’ll stay until the
boys come back.”

“No, I’m all right,” said June. “I’m not afraid.”

“Uh-huh.”

McLeese went past her and entered the kitchen, where she heard him
working around. Chuck Bell came over near the table and sat down in a
chair. He began rolling a smoke. June was entirely disarmed. She took
her hand away from the gun and picked up a magazine.

As quick as a flash Bell jerked sidewise out of his chair and secured
the gun. He leered at June as he shoved the gun inside the waist-band of
his overalls.

“All set, Mac,” he called. McLeese came from the kitchen, glanced
quickly toward the table and laughed throatily.

“That’s better than knockin’ her on the head,” he said. “By golly, she
had me worried for a minute. I don’t _sabe_ it yet, but that don’t worry
me much. Get a rope, Bell.”

Bell walked back to the front door and went out, while McLeese leaned
against the table and leered at June.

“Smart little lady, eh? Made a awful hit with Old Man Reber, didn’t yuh?
Came out here to catch Jack Silver!”

McLeese laughed scornfully. Bell came in with the rope and gave it to
McLeese, who lost no time in tying June’s hands and feet securely.

“Find me a handkerchief or a rag,” he said. “We’d better gag her. Yuh
never can tell who might come along. The road is guarded and all that,
but we’ll jist play safe.”

Bell produced a dirty bandanna handkerchief.

“Why don’tcha find out how much she knows, Mac?” he asked.

“Whatsa use? Anyway, we’ve got to get goin’, Chuck. Old Man Reber won’t
stop to ask many questions.”

McLeese twisted the handkerchief, forced June’s teeth apart and tied the
gag. As he was finishing the job, Bell examined the gun he had taken
from her. Suddenly he cried out:

“This is Jack Silver’s gun!”

“What’re yuh talkin’ about?” asked McLeese.

“I tell yuh it is, Mac! There’s the S carved on the bottom of the
handle. I’ve seen it lots of times. Where do you suppose she got it?”

McLeese looked at June, who was none too comfortable with the gag
between her teeth.

“Take that rag out and let her talk,” suggested Bell, but McLeese shook
his head.

“She’d lie about it, anyway.”

He indicated the closed door, where June had locked Silver.

“We’ll put her in there, Chuck. Grab her feet.”

McLeese grasping her by the shoulders and Chuck Bell taking her feet,
they carried her over to the door.

McLeese did not seem to think it strange that the hasp was fastened in
place. He held June with one arm while he unfastened it. He grasped her
again with both hands and kicked the door open.

And as the door flew open, something in the nature of a cyclone seemed
to strike them. Jack Silver sprang from inside the room, striking Chuck
Bell with his shoulder.

June’s feet struck the floor heavily, and McLeese jerked away, letting
her fall to the floor as Chuck Bell went spinning across the room. Jack
went to his hands and knees, but was up like a flash and into the
startled McLeese before he could draw a gun.

He swung a right hand at McLeese’s jaw, but the blow was too high. It
caught McLeese on the bridge of the nose and knocked him to his haunches
against the wall. Silver turned quickly to meet the rush of Chuck Bell,
and they grappled. It was evident that Bell was so dizzy from his
spinning that he forgot to draw a gun; but not so McLeese. He sagged
back, his broken nose painting his face with gore, and whipped out his
gun and fired upward at Silver.

The report of the gun was echoed by a crash of glass, and the room was
plunged in darkness. McLeese’s bullet had smashed the lamp, missing Jack
Silver’s ear by a fraction of an inch.

Silver whirled Bell around, broke his hold and flung him toward McLeese.
It was evident that Bell went down on top of McLeese, and Silver feared
for the safety of June, who was only a few feet from McLeese.

He stepped in and tried to drag her out of the mélée, but at that moment
one of the men crashed into him, knocking him off his feet. He went
rolling against the table, and a man fell over him. Silver struggled to
his feet and met the rush of one of them.

In that darkness it was impossible for him to see which one it was. They
crashed to the floor, fighting like a pair of animals, but Jack managed
to tear himself away and slid along the floor.

The front door opened, and for a moment he could see the silhouette of a
man, etched blackly against the moonlight.

Came the crashing report of a revolver in the room, and the silhouette
sagged down heavily.

The flash of the gun had blinded Silver, and the powder smoke choked
him. One of these men had shot the other, thinking it was Jack Silver.
He heard this man crawling across the floor, but did not try to stop
him. Then he heard him run through the kitchen, slam the door shut and
go running across the yard.

Silver ran to the front door. The man who had left the house mounted his
horse and spurred toward the gate. Silver turned the man over in the
doorway, and the white face and staring eyes of McLeese looked up at
him. He found McLeese’s gun where he had dropped it on the porch, and
went back in the house. He secured the lamp in the kitchen, lighted it
and went into the main room.

June was still lying where they had dropped her. Silver closed the front
door and came back to her. It was a simple task for him to take the gag
and ropes off her and help her to a chair, where she sagged wearily. The
gag had cut her lips, and there was blood on her wrists, cut by the
ropes.

Silver said nothing. His face was bruised and one sleeve of his shirt
was almost torn off. June stared at him, panting nervously, as he calmly
rolled a cigaret with steady fingers.

“Why don’t you say something?” she asked, almost hysterically.

He looked at her, a half-smile on his lips.

“I dunno,” he said simply. “Don’t seem to be much to say.”

“Well, what is it all about? Oh, why don’t you get excited? You sit
there and roll a cigaret just as though nothing had happened. Who--which
one did you shoot?”

“I didn’t shoot,” he said slowly. “Bell shot McLeese. Mebbe he thought
it was me. He didn’t have any cause to shoot Mac, that I know about. The
door over there was too thick for me to hear much that was said, and I’m
wonderin’ why they had you tied up.”

June shook her head. She didn’t know.

“Didn’t they tell yuh why?”

“Oh, I don’t know what they talked about. Everything is so mixed up.”

“Yeah, that’s right.”

He lighted his cigaret and inhaled deeply.

“It seems to me,” he said smiling quietly, “that you’ve kinda had a hard
time gettin’ started on yore new job.”

“Why did you have me kidnaped?” she asked.

“Me? Lord love yuh, I never did.”

“I’d like to believe you, but--”

“Why should I?”

“Well, I--I--you hate Park Reber.”

“Yo’re not Park Reber.”

“I--I work for him.”

“Lotsa folks work for him, ma’am, and I never kidnaped any of them.”

June bit her lip and studied Jack Silver, who looked at her frankly. He
did not look like a man who would kidnap a woman. There was nothing of
the sneak about him.

“What do you do for a living?” she asked bluntly.

“Trappin’, mostly. I had a small herd of cattle a few years ago, but
Park Reber’s men killed ’em off. He didn’t want me to get a start. In
the winter I trap from here over into the Clear Valley side of the
range. I make a good livin’.”

“What do you do with the cattle you steal from Park Reber?”

It was a very blunt question. Jack Silver’s eyes did not shift, but
narrowed slightly, and for several moments he did not speak. Then--

“I’ve never stolen a cow from Park Reber.”

“That doesn’t check up with what I’ve heard, Mr. Silver.”

“Probably not, ma’am, but it doesn’t matter. I’ve eaten Diamond R beef.
He killed off my cattle, didn’t he? When I needed a piece of beef real
bad, I took it. Reber hates me. He says he hates me because I steal his
cattle, but he’s a liar.”

“Is it because he wants all the valley?”

“No, it’s because I’ve got Cheyenne blood in me. You’ve heard his
story?”

“About the Indians killing his wife?”

“Stealin’ her, ma’am. Nobody knows how she died--if she did die.”

“I’m sorry,” said June simply.

“About my blood?” Silver smiled bitterly. “I can’t help it.”

He got to his feet and walked to a window and he looked out. Finally he
came back and sat down.

“I don’t see where your blood would make any difference,” said June.

“Don’t yuh? Yo’re a white woman; would you marry a half-breed?”

“Why, I--I never thought of that.”

“You wouldn’t. Perhaps there are white women who would, but they’d not
be the kind I’d want. I don’t want to marry an Injun girl--so there yuh
are. I’m only half good enough to marry a white woman, and I’ve got too
much white blood to marry an Indian. Everybody hates a breed. Oh, yes
they do. Even the Injuns hate a breed.

“Do yuh know what they say about a half-breed? They say he inherits the
vices of both sides and the virtues of neither. Mebbe that’s right.”

“What about Buck Priest--did Reber steal his cattle?”

“I think so, ma’am. But this ain’t lettin’ us in on the secret of
things. Why do yuh suppose McLeese and Bell tied you up. Who kidnapped
yuh, and what was their object? I’m gettin’ kinda anxious. Bell rode
away, and he might come back in force. I’d hate to have yuh penned in
here with me if Reber’s men try to catch me. I’ve got my own gun and the
one McLeese had. If Reber found me here with you he’d hang
me--especially if he found McLeese dead on the porch.”

“Then you’d better go away,” said June. “I can get along all right, I
guess.”

“I guess yuh can’t. After them fellers tied yuh up and tried to lock yuh
in that room? We’ll find a horse to ride and I’ll take yuh over to my
place. At least you’ll be safe over there.”

June shook her head quickly.

“No, I’ll stay here.”

“Then I’ll stay with yuh.”

“And get hung for being here?”

“Mebbe. I’d sure hate myself all the rest of my life if I left yuh here
alone and anythin’ happened to yuh.”

“Why would you care?”

“I’m half white.”

“And you’d do this, even after I forced you to lead me here with a rope
around your neck.”

“That wasn’t anythin’. You didn’t pull it tight,” he smiled at her and
went to the front door.

“We’ve got to kinda make this place bull-tight,” he said. “Yore name’s
June, ain’t it? I heard it was. I’ll call yuh June. It’s easier to say
than ma’am. My name’s Jack. Prob’ly be mud before mornin’.”

“Mr. Reber will come looking for me,” said June.

“Yea-a-ah, and he’ll find me,” laughed Jack. “But I’ve got a hunch that
Mr. Reber is goin’ to have a hard time gettin’ here.”

“They spoke about the road being guarded. Did they mean against Mr.
Reber?”

“Might be. We’ll just wait and see what happens.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Buck Priest and his men went back to the ranch and packed two horses
with blankets and enough food to last them several days. It was about
dark when they headed southeast toward the Porcupine hills. Priest’s
idea was to travel along the Porcupine for a way and then turn south
toward the Circle S.

As far as he knew there had been no misbranding of cattle. Therefore he
was of the opinion that the rustlers were moving a bunch of his stock
toward the West Fork pass. If Park Reber were stealing cattle, that was
the pass he would take them through to Clear Valley.

There was just enough moonlight to enable them to see to travel by. Buck
hoped to find the rustler’s camp, but after traveling far along the
Porcupine he decided to head toward the Half-Wheel, which was almost due
west of where they were now. He reasoned that if the rustlers knew that
O’Steen had escaped wounded they would possibly drop the herd and head
for the Half-Wheel.

In the meantime Park Reber had gathered a dozen riders and was also
heading down the valley. Nelson had told him what the two masked men had
said about the road’s being dangerous, and Reber was not the man not to
heed a warning. He left the road a short distance out of Tomahawk and
took to the open hills where there would be no danger of an ambush.

“We’ll head straight toward Jack Silver’s place,” he told his men. “Buck
Priest is in with Silver on this deal, that’s a cinch, so there’s no use
going to his place.”

“And if it’s a scheme to run a lot of cattle out of the valley they’ll
use the Trapper Creek pass,” declared Nelson. “I’d like to notch my
sight on the jasper that killed old Sam Herd.”

“There’ll be plenty of chances before this time tomorrow night,” said
Reber. “I’ll clean this valley of every rustler or quit the cow business
myself.”

The men knew the hills well, and they were able to make good time. Reber
was suffering considerably with his shoulder, but he gritted his teeth
and led the way.

There were no lights showing at the Half-Wheel when Buck Priest led his
men down to the road past the ranch. For quite a while they sat on their
horses at a little distance from the ranchhouse, debating just what to
do.

“We’ll go on,” decided Buck Priest. “Before daylight we can be in the
West Fork pass, and if they run those cows into that pass we’ll show the
dirty thieves a merry time.”

“Jist lemme get a sight of the fellers that leaded up O’Steen,” said
Rowdy. “I’m shore honin’ for a chance at ’em.”

“Daylight will tell the tale,” said Priest. “They’ll try and run ’em
through early in the mornin’. I wouldn’t be surprized to find the hills
around the Two Bar X full of my cows.”

They were about two miles south of the Half-Wheel, traveling along the
road through a narrow defile in the heavy brush, when a rifle spat fire
almost in front of them. It was so sudden and unexpected that the four
riders whirled in a mass, trying to control their horses. From several
places in the brush came orange-colored flashes, followed by the angry
spat of rifle shots. Buck Priest’s horse went down in a heap, pinning
Buck to the ground.

Ken Mader’s horse fell, but Ken flung himself free and began shooting
from the ground. For several moments it was a nightmare of rearing,
kicking horses and sporadic flashing of rifle and revolver shots. Mader
went down on his face.

Rowdy’s horse was shot from under him, but he managed to regain his feet
and mount behind Dick Leesom and spur the frightened horse into a gallop
back up the road. Dick had been shot through the side and was unable to
control his horse or to shoot a gun.

A flurry of rifle shots followed them, but the bullets buzzed far over
their heads.

Not one of the bushwhackers came in sight. As far as they were concerned
they never existed. Buck Priest had dropped flat on his back to escape
the hail of lead. His leg was pinned beneath his dead horse, and it was
impossible for him to extricate it. He could see the white face of Ken
Mader in the moonlight, and he cursed Park Reber and his men.

He tried to draw his leg loose from beneath the horse, but the pain
forced him to desist. He was sure the leg was broken. He swore bitterly,
feeling sure that they had run into the rustler’s ambush.

Back in the hills, only a mile away from the road, were Park Reber and
his men. They had heard the shooting, but the echoes were so confusing
that none of them could tell where the shooting was taking place.

“Sounded like a battle all right,” declared Reber. “We’d better head for
the road, I think. Unless I’m mistaken, that’s where the shooting came
from.”

They traveled due east, striking the road a few hundred yards north of
where the ambush had been laid. They did not see Leesom and Dow, who had
gone past the spot, and were heading north. But they did find Dow’s hat
in the road. It was a black Stetson, fairly new, but not marked with
name or initial.

“Somebody goin’ plenty fast,” said one of the men. “That’s hat’s too
good for a puncher to throw it away.”

“No way to tell which way he was goin’,” drawled a cowboy.

“We’ll go south and take a chance,” said Reber. And then they found Buck
Priest, pinned down by his dead horse, and Ken Mader lying dead beside
his dead horse. The men dismounted. Buck Priest recognized them and spat
a curse at Park Reber.

“Got yuh, eh?” grunted Reber.

“Mader’s dead,” said one of the men.

Reber gave them orders to lift the horse off Priest’s leg.

“Well, you’ve got me, Reber,” said Priest. “My leg’s busted. I hope
yo’re satisfied, you dirty cow thief!”

“I will be satisfied, yuh can bet on that,” said Reber. “Yo’re all
through in this valley, Buck Priest--you and yore S Bar P outfit. When I
get my hands on Jack Silver I’ve made a clean sweep.”

“When yuh do,” gritted Priest.

“Oh, I will,” rasped Reber. “I’ve started out to clean up this valley.”

“Clean! It’ll never be clean as long as _you_ live. You killed O’Steen
today--yore men did. He saw yuh stealin’ my cows. And yuh--oh what’s the
use? You’ve got the best hand, Reber. Go ahead and do what yuh want to.”

“I never killed O’Steen,” denied Reber.

“Yore men did.”

“Did they? I didn’t know it. Where’s June Meline?”

“That female fiddler?”

“Yeah, that female fiddler! Where is she?”

“I heard somebody stole her.”

“Oh, yuh did, eh? I reckon yuh didn’t need to _hear_ it. Some of you
boys lift him on a horse. We’ll take him along with us and settle his
case at the Two Bar X.”

They lifted Buck Priest to a saddle, and he cursed them for hurting his
broken leg. Perhaps they were none too gentle.

“Want to rope him on, Park?” asked one of the men.

“What for? If he falls off he can’t run away, can he?”

Two of the cowboys rode double and one of them led Buck Priest’s horse.
The jolting of the horse was misery to Priest, but he clamped his jaws
tightly and held all his weight on his right stirrup.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The first faint touch of dawn streaked the old pole corrals and the
stables of the Two Bar X. Huddled in a chair beside the table in the
main room sat June Meline, wrapped in a blanket, asleep. At one of the
front windows stood Jack Silver. He had watched all night for the return
of Bell, who he was sure would come back. The body of McLeese still lay
where it fell.

He turned his head and saw June looking at him. She had slept for
several hours.

“How are yuh feelin’, June?” he asked.

“All right, Jack. Oh, I must have slept a long time. Why, it’s morning!”

“Just about. We’ll get some breakfast and then I’ll rope a couple of
horses. I dunno what became of my horse, but I think they took him away.
We’re goin’ back to Tomahawk, June. Somethin’ is wrong out here.”

She nodded and got up from her chair.

“I’ll get the breakfast, Jack. I can cook.”

“I’ll betcha,” he smiled. “Yo’re quite a woman, June. I don’t blame
Reber for likin’ yuh. I never knew that women had the nerve you’ve got.
After what you went through since yuh left Tomahawk yesterday, it’s a
wonder you’ve got any nerve left.”

“But I’ve been frightened,” confessed June. “If you had said ‘boo!’ to
me yesterday I’d have dropped your gun.”

“Mebbe not,” said Jack smiling. “That gun is too easy on the trigger to
take any chances. I might have just booed a bullet into my nervous
system.”

Jack laughed and turned back to the window, leaning forward tensely.
There were cattle drifting past the rear of the corrals and sheds--a
compact mass of moving animals heading northwest toward the West Fork
pass. Jack stepped to the door and opened it enough to give him a
farther view down the valley. As far as he could see down the valley
there were cattle surging ahead like a brown wave.

Jack shut the door quickly. A man had slipped through the corral-fence
at the corner of a shed, a man carrying a rifle in his hand.

“What is it, Jack?” asked June anxiously.

“The big steal!” he exclaimed. “I know the answer now, June. Reber’s own
men are stealing from him--taking a big herd over the West Fork pass.
That’s why they stole yuh, don’t yuh see? They didn’t want anybody here
to see ’em. That’s why there wasn’t anybody here, June.

“That’s why they’ve blocked the road against Reber. McLeese had this
framed before Reber fired him. God knows how many of Reber’s men are in
on it. They’re tryin’ to send ’em over the pass before anybody can get
out here to catch ’em.”

“But--but they know we’re here,” panted June.

“They sure do,” said Jack bitterly. “Keep out of line with the windows.
I’ve got the doors fastened and I’ve got two guns. But our best chance
is to lay low. We know too much for them to let us get out alive, June.
Their plans were upset when Reber sent you out here.”

“But won’t they be in such a hurry to get the cattle over the pass that
they’ll leave us alone?”

June’s answer came in the form of a bullet, which smashed out a pane of
glass and thudded into the rear wall of the room. Jack drew June back
against the wall, and they edged their way to the front of the room.

“Flat on the floor under the windows,” said Jack. “They’ll not shoot
that low.”

A shower of glass sprayed over them when a bullet tore through the
window casing.

“Shootin’ wild,” said Jack easily. “Listen to the cattle.”

They could hear the dull rumble of the moving herd, the soft bawling of
calves.

“They’re movin’ a mighty big herd,” said Jack. “It sure will hit Park
Reber hard.”

“You ought to be glad,” said June wearily.

“I wonder if I am? If it was anybody but his own men I might.”

“You believe in loyalty, Jack?”

“If yuh mean trustin’ a friend or an employee--yes.”

“You’ve been to school?”

Jack nodded shortly.

“Six years, June--in Cheyenne.”

“Who sent you there?”

“I don’t know. I don’t even know who paid for it. I was sent from the
reservation when I was about eight years old. I never went back there,
June. I was fourteen when I came here. I worked for Buck Priest quite a
while, and then I built me a place on Trapper Creek. I was goin’ to be a
cowman, and I had a good start, but Park Reber’s men killed off my
cattle. I’ve been in the valley eleven years.”

“You are twenty-five years old, Jack?”

“I think so.”

“Who was your father?”

He looked queerly at her. Another bullet smashed through the kitchen
window and ricocheted off the stove.

“I don’t know who he was,” said Jack. He ran his fingers along the
barrel of his six-shooter. “No one would tell me after I came back from
school. They said I was the son of a squaw-man.”

Jack sat up with his shoulders against the corner of the room. Some one
had come on the porch and was near the door. Jack leaned sidewise and
sent a bullet angling through the center panel. His shot was echoed by a
yelp and a curse.

“They’re still in there!” yelled a voice.

Bullets came through the door about two feet above the floor and more
came through the smashed windows. The opposite wall of the room was
beginning to show signs of wear. A bullet smashed the lamp, causing a
small shower of kerosene.

Some one was trying to open the kitchen door. Jack snaked along the wall
to the kitchen entrance and sent a bullet through the door just above
the knob. He heard a sharp cry and turned to see June, one hand across
her face. She had tried to follow him.

He rolled back to her and drew her back under the window. A bullet had
come through just below the sill, and had scored her temple just enough
to break the skin and raise a blue welt. She was dazed, bewildered. She
tried to get to her feet, but Jack pulled her down.

“You’re all right, June,” he told her. “It’s not serious. Stay down,
girl!”

He held to her with one hand. There was smoke drifting in through the
broken window--too much smoke to be caused by the shooting. Jack sniffed
at it.

Wood smoke! They had fired the ranchhouse!

He could hear the flames crackling now, and the smoke was getting
heavier. June was recovering, but it seemed that the injury had broken
her nerve. She began crying softly and Jack patted her on the arm.

“It’s all right, June,” he told her. “Don’t cry. You’ve got to hang on
to yore nerve, girl. They’ve set the house on fire. It’s do or die, I
guess. We can’t stay here and burn to death.”

The wall was getting hot. There was a little breeze, and the seasoned
old building was as dry as tinder. June blinked at him through her
tears. She understood what he was saying.

“We’ll crawl to the kitchen door,” he told her. “I’ll open the door and
jump out. Mebbe I can drive ’em back so you can get away. It’s our only
chance. They might let yuh go and figure on catchin’ yuh. I’ll stop ’em
as long as I can, June.”

They slid along the wall to the kitchen.

The shooting had stopped. Jack knew they were merely waiting for them to
try to make a break. Beside the door they stopped and Jack held out his
hand to her.

“Good-by, June. You stay here until I tell yuh when to come out--if I
last that long.”

“Good-by, Jack.” June’s face was white and drawn. “I forced you into
this. If it hadn’t been for me you’d be free.”

“Tha’s all right; it was a mistake, June. It’s all in the game. I reckon
I’d forgive you for anythin’. Good-by.”

He raised up from his haunches, grasped the door with his left hand and
gave it a jerk. It stuck fast. He dropped the gun in his holster and
grasped the door with both hands but it refused to open.

“Stay here, June,” he panted, dropping to his knees and crawled back to
the front door.

The room was full of smoke now.

He went to the door, got to his feet and tried to open it. He could
force it open about two inches--enough to see that a rope ran from the
knob to a porch-post.

A bullet smashed through the paneling and raked him along the forearm.
He dropped to his knees, coughing from the smoke, and crawled back to
June. His left forearm and hand were covered with blood.

“They’ve locked us in, June,” he said. “If we try to get through a
window they’ll riddle us.”

June merely stared at him, her mind refusing to work.

“You mean, we can’t get out--we’ve got to burn?”

Jack was staring at a spot in the center of the floor. There was a metal
ring sunk in the floor, and beyond it were two hinges--the roothouse
trap-door.

He sprawled over and dug the ring loose. With a heave he opened the
trap, and the odor of musty old vegetables filled the room. An old
ladder led down to the bottom. June went down first. There was more
shooting, but they could not hear the bullets now.

Jack left the trap open to give them a little light. The roothouse was
about six feet deep and of about the width of the kitchen. It was cool
down there, and no smoke penetrated. They took deep breaths to rid their
lungs of the smoke.

On one side was an accumulation of old boxes and barrels. Jack lighted a
match and almost shouted with joy. Behind those old boxes and barrels
was a stairway which led to an outside roothouse door.

He flung the boxes aside, clearing the disused stairway, a prayer in his
heart that the door might not be nailed down. They could hear the
snapping of the flames now, the hoarse shouts of men, the crackle of
guns.

Jack put his shoulder against the old slanting door and lifted enough to
find that it was not fastened down.

“We’ll beat ’em yet, June,” he panted. “The fire seems to be mostly at
the front of the house yet. We can stay here for a few minutes.”

June was swaying sidewise, and before Jack could spring to her
assistance she had fainted. He lifted her up and held her in his arms.
In falling she had struck her head against the corner of a box, cutting
it badly.

He tore the muffler from around his neck and bound it around her head.
Then he picked her up in his arms and staggered up the old steps, where
he hunched in as low as possible, bracing his right shoulder against the
door.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Park Reber did not lead his men straight for the Two Bar X, but took the
left-hand road and headed for the Circle S, where he decided to pick up
Jim Carlin and his men. He intended sending one man from there to the
Lightning to get the assistance of Nort Jackson and his crew. Reber was
going to have enough men to comb every inch of the country.

It was nearing daylight when they rode into the Circle S. The ranch was
deserted.

“Mebbe they’re chasin’ rustlers already,” said one of the men.

“More likely out doin’ a little rustlin’,” said Buck Priest grimly. His
face was the color of ashes, his left leg dangling uselessly from
outside the stirrup. The old man was living on his nerve now. Park Reber
scowled at him, but said nothing in reply to Priest’s sarcasm.

“Shall we go to the Lightnin’?” asked a cowboy.

“No,” said Reber shortly, and headed for the Two Bar X.

The men were tired, sleepy, hungry; they were willing to go anywhere to
stop for a while. They did not go back to the road, but cut across the
hills. Daylight came swiftly, and the sun was painting the tops of the
hills when they struck the road about a mile below the Two Bar X.

And here the road was a mass of cow tracks. Reber leaned forward in his
saddle, pointing at them.

“The trail of the rustlers,” he said. “They’re headin’ for the West Fork
pass.”

“Listen!” Nelson threw up his hand.

From far up the road they could hear the rattle of rifle shots.

“My ----!” exclaimed Reber. “The boys of the Two Bar X are tryin’ to
stop ’em! Come on!”

Some one lashed Buck Priest’s horse across the rump with a rope, and the
animal almost unseated the suffering old man. He gritted his teeth and
rode along with them. The men were riding with rifles in their hands
now.

About three hundred yards short of the Two Bar X, the road topped an
elevation around the point of a hill and, as they swung around this
point, Park Reber, riding at the head of his men, drew rein.

The whole front end of the ranchhouse was enveloped in flames, and
beyond the burning house the hills were full of cattle. They saw a man
running away from the corrals. He mounted a horse and headed for the
cattle.

A rifle bullet struck the ground in front of Reber’s horse and buzzed
angrily away. The riders separated like a covey of quail. Another bullet
thudded against a horse, and its rider flung himself free as the horse
reared up and fell backward.

Cowboys were dismounting as swiftly as possible, letting their horses
go; then they ran ahead, taking advantage of every bit of cover. Rifles
began to crack as the Reber men searched the corrals and sheds with
bullets.

Mounted men began riding from behind the stable, heading toward the
cattle.

“Get yore horses!” yelled Reber. “They’re headin’ for the pass.”

The men continued to shoot at the retreating cowboys. One of them
pitched sidewise off his horse, and his horse came back toward the
stable. Reber’s men mounted swiftly and swept down on the ranch.

A man ran from the stable-door, trying to get around the corner, but a
hail of bullets cut him down. He went flat on his side, rolled over and
fired one shot in return. Park Reber jerked back in his saddle and slid
to the ground.

At that same moment one of the men yelled warningly. The outside
roothouse door was flung open and out came Jack Silver, carrying June
Meline across one arm. He staggered, flung up his right hand to shoot at
them, but tripped over an old water-bucket and fell flat.

Several cowboys threw themselves upon him before he could get up, and
held him tightly. They yanked him to his feet, and others took charge of
June.

“Well, yuh got me, I guess,” panted Jack.

“I guess we have!” snorted a cowboy. “Yo’re all through, you dirty
half-breed.”

Jack shut his lips tightly.

“Reber’s been hit hard,” said one of the men. “That feller down at the
stable got him.”

They led Jack around to where Reber was lying. But Jack paid no
attention to Reber; he was staring at old Buck Priest, who was barely
able to sit in his saddle.

Park Reber had the men lift him to a sitting position. He looked at Jack
Silver closely.

“I swore I’d get you, Silver,” he said. “I started out last night to
clean out the valley. I don’t know how badly I’m hurt, but it’s bad
enough. But you’ve stolen your last cow, kidnaped your last woman. If
you’ve got any prayers to say you better say ’em.”

“I’m not prayin’,” said Jack coldly. “I never stole yore cows and I
never kidnaped any woman.”

“What else could yuh say?” cried Reber, and then to his men, “Run a rope
over the ridge-pole of the stable.”

The men hurried to do his bidding. Old Buck Priest had heard Reber’s
order, and it seemed to amuse him greatly.

“Goin’ to hang the lad, eh?” he laughed. “Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! That’s good!
Goin’ to die with that on yore dirty soul, eh? It’s like yuh, Reber.”

He turned to Jack, who was being held by two men.

“Reber’s men bushwhacked me last night, Jack. They killed Ken Mader.
Yesterday afternoon they killed O’Steen.”

“You lie!” declared Reber weakly. “You’re tryin’ to turn it around. You
stole my cattle and my men caught yuh.”

“And yore men shot Sam Herd yesterday, Priest,” declared Nelson.

“Lies!” panted Buck. “All lies! We didn’t know Herd was dead until we
met yuh at the forks of the road, Nelson.”

“The rope’s ready, Park,” called one of the men.

One of the cowboys threw a noose around Jack’s neck, but he did not
quiver. He was probably the coolest man in the crowd.

“Have you said yore prayer?” asked Reber.

Jack shut his lips tightly.

“All right,” said Reber weakly.

“I wish you’d wait until June Meline recovers,” said Jack. “She might
have somethin’ to say.”

“Your time is up, Silver.”

“Yuh better not hang him,” said Buck Priest. “You’ll be sorry, Reber.
Ain’t there nothin’ that can save him?”

“Not a thing, Priest.”

“All right, Reber. Go ahead and hang him. Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! Hang him, you
dirty old pup! Hang yore own son, and be ---- to yuh! Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!”

In spite of his weakness, Reber jerked forward, staring at Buck Priest.
Jack Silver stumbled forward, his eyes on the curiously twisted features
of the old cattleman. Reber tore his gaze away and looked at Jack
Silver.

“You lie, Priest!” he said.

“I don’t lie! He’s your son, Park. His mother died when he was born and
he was nursed by a squaw. Ask him who his father was--he don’t know, I
tell yuh!”

Jack shook his head.

“I kept track of him, Park,” said Priest. “I shipped him to school and
paid for it. I wanted an ace in the hole. You’ve always wondered if
there was a child. Look at him, Reber. He’s yore own flesh and
blood--and you’re goin’ to hang him! Let’s get it over with, Reber. I
want to see you hang yore own son.”

Reber shut his eyes, and after a few moments the tears trickled down his
cheeks. The wound was sapping his strength. It was a long way to a
doctor, and he knew he couldn’t live till one came.

One of his men came bustling into the crowd.

“Hey,” he shouted, “that fellow down by the stable is Bell, of this
ranch, and the one on the hill up there is Bob Cliff, of the Lightnin’!
What does it mean?”

“It means that Reber’s own men planned to clean him out,” said Jack
Silver. “They kidnaped June Meline. I found her and brought her here.
Last night Bell killed McLeese. He was on the porch and he’s burned up
by this time. I think you’ll find that the Circle X, Lightnin’ and Two
Bar X outfits were makin’ a big steal, but circumstances blocked ’em.”

Reber opened his eyes and stared at Jack.

“Is that all true, Jack?” he asked.

“The girl’s awake,” burst in one of the men.

They brought her over to Reber. She saw the rope around Jack’s neck.

“He--he saved me!” she said hoarsely to Reber. “Jack Silver wasn’t to
blame. It was your own men. Oh, you’ve been hurt again!”

Reber leaned back and his face was very white now.

“Come in close, boys,” he said weakly. “Listen to what I’m sayin’. No
time to write. Jack Silver is my son. Everything I own belongs to him. I
think Buck Priest taught him to hate me. I--I didn’t kill off his herd
of cattle. Mebbe my men did it. But it’s all right now. He owns this
valley and everything else I have.

“Get Buck Priest to a doctor. I don’t hate him any more. He gave me back
my son. Jack--come closer. This--is--June. She’s--fine. I--I--”

His head fell forward on his chest.

                   *       *       *       *       *

There was little left of the old ranchhouse when Jack Silver and June
Meline stood beside the body of Park Reber, who seemed to be smiling in
his sleep. Nelson came up to Jack and held out his hand.

“You’ll have to hire new crews, Jack,” he said. “I imagine a lot of
Diamond R men went over the West Fork pass this mornin’.”

“Let ’em go,” said Jack. “There’s been enough killin’.”

He put his good arm around June and they went down toward the stables,
where the men were rigging a stretcher to carry Buck Priest back to his
ranch.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the May 15, 1927 issue of
Adventure magazine.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE VALLEY OF LOST HERDS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
The Project Gutenberg eBook of Great bands of America, by Alberta
Powell Graham

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Great bands of America

Author: Alberta Powell Graham

Release Date: May 22, 2023 [eBook #70831]

Language: English

Produced by: Tim Lindell, David E. Brown, and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This book was
             produced from images made available by the HathiTrust
             Digital Library.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GREAT BANDS OF AMERICA ***


  [Illustration]




  _Great Bands of America_

  _by_

  _Alberta Powell Graham_

  _Frontispiece by_
  KURT WERTH

  THOMAS NELSON & SONS
  _Toronto_ · NEW YORK · _Edinburgh_

  [Illustration]




COPYRIGHT, 1951, BY ALBERTA POWELL GRAHAM

All rights reserved under International and Pan-American Conventions.
Published in New York by Thomas Nelson & Sons and simultaneously in
Toronto, Canada, by Thomas Nelson & Sons (Canada) Limited.


Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 51-13995

  MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
  BY THE COLONIAL PRESS INC.




  _TO THOSE WHO MAKE MUSIC
  FOR THE PEOPLE_




  _OTHER BOOKS BY
  ALBERTA POWELL GRAHAM_

  Strike Up the Band
  32 Roads to the White House


  _For Younger Children_

  Christopher Columbus, Discoverer




_CONTENTS_


       There’s Something About a Band                       11

     I Military Bands                                       15

       UNITED STATES MARINE BAND                            17

       _Major William F. Santelmann_                        23

       UNITED STATES NAVY BAND                              27

       _Commander Charles Brendler_                         32

       UNITED STATES ARMY BAND                              39

       _Captain Hugh J. Curry_                              45

       UNITED STATES ARMY AIR FORCES BAND                   49

       _Lt. Colonel George S. Howard_                       53

    II Concert Bands                                        59

       _John Philip Sousa_                                  59

       _Patrick Sarsfield Gilmore_                          70

       _Arthur Pryor_                                       81

       _Patrick Conway_                                     87

       _Edwin Franko Goldman_                               92

   III Municipal Bands                                     105

       THE ALLENTOWN BAND                                  107

       THE BARRINGTON BAND                                 109

       _Herbert Lincoln Clarke_                            110

       _Karl King_                                         121

       THE BAND OF HAGERSTOWN                              124

       PHILADELPHIA’S MUMMERS’ PARADE                      125

    IV Industrial Bands                                    127

       _Frank Simon_                                       130

     V The Salvation Army Band                             134

       _Captain Richard E. Holz_                           142

    VI Merle Evans, Toscanini of the Big Top               146

   VII College and University Bands                        156

       UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS BAND                         157

       _Albert Austin Harding_                             158

       _Mark H. Hindsley_                                  161

       UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN BAND                         163

       _William D. Revelli_                                165

  VIII High School Bands                                   167

       FARM AND TRADES SCHOOL BAND                         171

       _A. R. McAllister_                                  174

    IX As We Go Marching On                                178

       Books, Magazines, and Newspapers Consulted--        183




_ACKNOWLEDGMENTS_


  For help in collecting data for this book, I am especially grateful
  to--

  MISS NORA BEUST
  _Specialist for Schools and Children’s Libraries
  United States Department of Education._

  MISS VANETT LAWLER
  _Associate Executive Secretary of the Music Educators’
  National Conference._

  MRS. W. H. POWELL, for her aid in research and cooperation
  on the manuscript.

  The following members of the staff of the Library of
  Congress:

  COLONEL WILLARD WEBB, _Chief of the Stack and Reader Division_;
  MR. FRANK C. CAMPBELL
  MRS. MARGARET HASSELBUSH
  MR. OLIVER A. DUDLEY
  _All of the Music Division_;
  MR. DAVID H. COLE
  MR. STEWARD DICKSON
  MR. FRANK E. LORRAINE
  _Assistants in Charge of Public Reference._




_There’s Something About a Band_


What is more thrilling than a fine brass band? There’s something about
a band that sets hearts pounding and pulses racing.

Band music stirs all ages. Young and old pour into the streets to
see and hear a band. Mothers with babies in their arms and wide-eyed
youngsters clinging to their skirts, line the sidewalks. Small boys run
to keep pace with the drummer, then with shoulders back and stomachs
stuck out, they proudly march beside them. Old men lift heads high,
women’s eyes are tear-filled as the band brings sad memories.

All America loves a band. Even in Washington, the National Capital,
the most popular parade ground in the United States, crowds quickly
jam the streets to the very curb, as a band leads a parade along the
Avenue. For it is a marching band which makes the deepest appeal to the
emotions of the human mind and heart. A lively march will bring smiles
to the faces, sparkles to the eyes and a rhythmic step to the feet.

Since that long-ago day when Joshua commanded his seven high
priests--probably the first seven-piece wind band--to blow their
rams’-horn trumpets as they marched seven times around the walled city
of Jericho, countless marches have been played. And the walls still
“come tumbling down” in hearts that thrill to band music.

Down through the ages the band, in its development, has sounded the
call to arms and played the hymns of peace. In years gone by the music
of the band led the townsfolk to the village green. Today the concert
bands draw thousands of people to the public parks.

In our own country neither the Puritans nor the Quakers of New
England’s early days would allow the use of musical instruments. But
the German and Swedish colonists brought their music with them to this
country.

The first band in New York City consisted of four sturdy Dutch citizens
who played the trumpet, flute, violin and drum. They gave a free
concert every Saturday afternoon at Bowling Green to crowds of one
hundred or more people. This was in the 1630’s. A few years later seven
younger, better-looking men made up a rival band. They played louder
and became more popular.

Many small bands were organized in Boston during the next few years.
Several little German bands came to this country and stopped in Boston.
Some played on streets and were called Gutter Bands. Others were
excellent musicians and one of their flute players became the flutist
in the Boston Symphony Orchestra.

In 1773 Mr. Josiah Flagg formed a band of fifty or more men and gave
concerts in Faneuil Hall. This was the first band of any size in
America. Other bands were soon organized in Boston: The Green Dragon,
and the Boston Brigade Band were very well known.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bands may come and bands may go, but none like those found in a few
small towns in the early 1800’s will ever be seen again.

Even in those days everyone loved gay uniforms. Some of the bandsmen
wore home-made bandsuits which challenge description. The members of
one little band in New England wore lined, red flannel trousers with
dark but decorated coats. The bandleaders in those days seemed to
concentrate on their hats. Some wore big plug hats with gay rosettes
made of ribbon or flowers. Others wore gorgeous plumes. The men in the
bands usually had cloth epaulets sewn on their shoulders; the leaders’
epaulets were trimmed so that they looked like glistening jewels. They
usually wore whiskers, or at least well-waxed moustaches. The members
of the bands, like their leaders, were often untrained and always
unpaid. Though most of them could read music, many played “by ear.”

Human folk need some form of self-expression and music is an ideal mode
for an individual to give vent to his feelings and voice his desires.
Often the mousiest, quietest little man in town joins the band and
insists upon playing the tuba or pounding the largest drum. It gives
him a feeling of importance and the satisfaction of achievement. He
may not make speeches, or write influential articles, but he can beat
the rhythm or blow the loud “oompas” that set the pace for the whole
band.

As America’s population increased, almost every village and town had
a band. Their concerts in the public square became regular features.
These village bands have done much for the advancement of music in our
country. They have given more pleasure and delight to a greater number
of people than any other agency. These bands have helped the love of
music to find its way into the lives and hearts of the American people.

[Illustration]




_U. S. Military Bands_


“When I hear music, I fear no danger. I am invulnerable. I see no foe.”
Thus wrote Henry D. Thoreau in his journal a century ago.

General Washington knew how a brisk, rhythmical tune helped hungry,
poorly-clad soldiers on the march and also inspired them to fight
bravely in battle. He felt that music was so important that he ordered
forty to sixty fifers and drummers in each regiment of his army. The
bands were chosen from the troops. These “musics”, as Benjamin Franklin
called them, were untrained and each man played in his own fashion, but
their music gave the Revolutionists heart.

The influence of band music on the fighting man’s morale has been
recognized since historians began to write. A band, especially a
military band, may inspire courage, a wish to fight or a will to
win. It beats the rhythm for marching feet and gives a tune for
whistling. Lively, tuneful marches send the troops quick-stepping off
to the battlefront. Grand, triumphal strains herald the return of the
victorious army.

Troops will step faster and march for a longer time to the rhythm of
a drum than to any other way of keeping time. What is more stirring
than the heavy, measured boom-boom-boom of the bass drum, the rhythmic
clatter of the snare drum and the great blasts of tone from the huge,
wide-mouthed horns?

In the beginning American military band music mainly consisted of the
shrill tones of the fife paced by the rattle of the snare drums with
their vibrating snares. The famous picture “The Spirit of Seventy-six”
shows a revolutionary “fife and drum” band of this type. They were
often called the “Drum and Foof” bands. Since those early days of
military bands there has been notable change in instrumentation.
Gradually more mellow-sounding instruments such as the oboes, trumpets
and clarinets came into use. Present day bands are superior to our ears
not only because the modern instruments are more perfectly manufactured
but because of this new tonal balance.


_The Marine Band_

“Boom-Boom-Boom-Boom!”

The drums beat loud, the fifes tooted shrilly, and the Marines tramped
steadily down the dusty road. The offices of the U. S. Capitol had been
moved from Philadelphia to the new Federal City on the Potomac early in
June, 1800. Now late in July, on a hot muggy day, the Marine Corps and
their band were on their way to Washington, 136 miles away. And they
were marching on foot.

Since the organization of a Marine Corps in 1775, drums and fifes had
furnished the music. The fife’s piercing tones carried the melody while
the drums beat the rhythm and gave the signals for the officers’ orders.

These drums were wondrous things. Their tall, double-headed cylinders
were capable of great vibrations caused by the gut strings across the
lower head. The drums had red bodies and blue heads, painted to match
the colors of the band uniforms. A coiled rattlesnake, with raised
head ready to strike, was painted on the side of each drum, over the
warning motto, “Don’t tread on me.”

At the close of the Revolutionary War, 1783, all military organizations
were disbanded. But eleven years later the U. S. Navy was authorized by
Congress; new duties were found for “Musics.” They were ordered to play
on recruiting duty and on frigates. After they had become so generally
useful, Congress decided that there must be a fully organized band in
the Marine Corps. President John Adams approved the bill to form this
branch of the Marine Corps in 1798. The very first U. S. Marine Band
consisted of a “drum major, fife major, and thirty-two drums and fifes.”

Some Marine troops and their bands were sent to the U. S. warships
engaged in the French Naval War. Others were dispatched to serve under
Commander Stephen Decatur in his battles with the Barbary pirates in
Tripoli Harbor.

One Marine Band unit, stationed in Philadelphia under Colonel William
Ward Burrows, became the nucleus of the now famous Marine Band. Drum
Major William Farr was appointed its leader.

Philadelphia people liked the Marine Band and its lively martial music.
An especially large crowd enjoyed their playing on July 4, 1800, at
the celebration of Independence Day. This was their last performance
in Philadelphia; they moved to Washington in that same month, weary,
footsore Marines camped in tents on a grassy slope overlooking the
Potomac and the beautiful hills of Virginia beyond.

The people of Washington were thrilled and excited over the coming of
the band and gladly welcomed it. This Federal City had proved sadly
disappointing to its new residents, many of them from busy cities
like New York, Philadelphia and Richmond. To them Washington was a
desolate, forlorn-looking place--“mudhole in a wilderness” many called
it. To these lonely people the band’s lively music hinted at dances and
parties.

The Marine Band received orders to do all in their power to cheer the
inhabitants of Washington. Shortly after reaching the city on August
21, the band gave its first concert. Fortunately they played in the
open air, for almost everyone in the town and country around attended.
Everyone was joyous and happy at this first attempt at any kind of
entertainment for the people. Young and old were there, dressed in
their best, all eager to hear the first band concert in Washington.

Similar evening entertainments were enjoyed throughout those summer
and autumn months. The Marine Band grew very popular with everyone,
particularly President Adams, Vice-President Jefferson and the
Secretary of the Navy, Benjamin Stoddard. Colonel Burrows, proud of
his band, bought a number of new instruments which included two French
horns, two clarinets, one bassoon and a bass drum.

On New Year’s Day, 1801, the Marine Band for the first time played at
the “President’s Palace,” as the White House was always called until
it was burned by the British in the war of 1812. The occasion of this
band concert was the formal reception held by President and Mrs. John
Adams. Since that time the Marine Band’s playing at the Presidents’ New
Year’s receptions has become traditional.

Not only was the music pleasing, but the players were glamorous. The
band uniforms were gay and striking--short, scarlet, gold-buttoned
coatees, faced and edged with blue and gold; high blue collars and
blue shoulder straps trimmed with gold; blue pantaloons with a scarlet
stripe; and brown hats turned up on the left side with a black leather
cockade. Each bandsman wore the black leather stock, or collar, which
gave the Marines their familiar nickname of Leathernecks.

Besides playing at many parties and balls, the band took part in
religious services. The newspapers of that day say that it often played
at the Sunday church services held in the Hall of Congress. “Their
polished instruments and colorful uniforms made a dazzling appearance
and their music was excellent.”

On their first Fourth of July in Washington, 1801, the Marine Corps,
led by the band, marched in review before President Jefferson on the
lawn of the Executive Mansion. Because of his great interest in it,
President Jefferson was called the god-father of the band, and the
name, _The President’s Own_, was often applied to it.

During the war with Great Britain in 1812, many Marine bandsmen laid
aside their instruments and joined the fighting. They fought in the
Battle of Bladensburg and also helped to save the records of the U. S.
Marine Corps when the Capital was fired by the enemy troops.

It became customary for the different presidents to ask the band to
perform many and varied services. Jefferson, during his presidency,
received a huge cheese weighing 750 pounds from some of his
enthusiastic admirers. He invited his friends to share the tasty
delicacy and had the Marine Band play for their entertainment. Some
years later when President Jackson was presented with a 1,400 pound
cheese, he wanted the Band’s music to accompany the feasting of his
guests too. But play as they would, no one heard them; for on that
occasion the public stormed the White House, ruining carpets and
furnishings in attempts to get portions of the immense cheese they had
heard about.

Not only has this famous band played for the highest officials at all
White House and State social affairs, but also for the first children’s
party at the White House which was given by President Jackson. The
youngsters at the first egg-rolling on the White House lawn were
serenaded by the Marine Band.

The Marine Band has always been a part of inauguration ceremonies. It
played at the first inaugural ball, James Madison’s, at Long’s Hotel.
And beginning with that of James Monroe, this group has played at
almost every inaugural ceremony, and it has marched in every inaugural
parade.

President Lincoln insisted that the Marine Band give frequent
out-of-door concerts during the Civil War to help the morale of
the people in Washington. It accompanied him to Gettysburg when he
delivered his famous address.

During its long life--more than 170 years--the Marine Band has had
eighteen leaders. Although each did his best according to his musical
training and experience, it was not until John Philip Sousa took
over the leadership that the band reached the highest peak of its
achievement.

The vigorous and dynamic Sousa saw the band’s possibilities and things
began to happen. He reorganized the personnel and increased the number
of players. He inspired his men to high performance. He persuaded
Congress to send them on nation-wide tours. Soon the Marine Band was
the best-known and most popular band in America.

Other leaders have carried on where Sousa left off--Francisco
Fanciulli, W. H. Santelmann, Taylor Branson and W. F. Santelmann. The
work of its great leaders together with the invention and improvement
of instruments has revolutionized the Marine Band’s performance since
the fife and drum days of 1775.

“The motto of the Marine Corps, _Semper Fidelis_--_Always Faithful_--is
the keynote to which the band strives and it hopes to bring honor,
glory and distinction to its proud history.”


MAJOR WILLIAM F. SANTELMANN

_Leader of the Marine Band_

Another 8th grade football game was on. Both teams were putting up a
hard fight. Clutching the ball tight against his body, Bill Santelmann
raced towards the goal. The next minute, it seemed to him, that both
teams had landed on top of him. When the heap of waving arms and legs
had been unscrambled, Bill couldn’t get up.

“That’s not too bad, fellow,” said the gym teacher cheerfully as he
looked over the victim. “Just a broken collar bone, I think. It will
heal in no time.”

But a horrible thought came into Bill’s mind. “Will I ever be able to
play my violin again?” Just the night before, he had heard the Boston
Symphony Orchestra Concert, with Fritz Kreisler playing his violin. He
had resolved then and there that nothing should keep him from being a
violinist.

“And now, this would happen!” he said to himself. “Well, this settles
it. No more athletics for me! Playing my violin means more to me than
playing football.”

William F. Santelmann was born on February 24, 1902, in Washington, D.
C. His father, Captain W. H. Santelmann, was the leader of the U. S.
Marine Band.

Of the six children in the Santelmann family, Bill was the only one
who had inherited the father’s musical talent. Any one of the three
daughters could play the piano well enough to accompany them and the
whole family enjoyed singing together on their evenings at home. But
Bill’s two brothers pooh-poohed the idea of having anything more than
that to do with music.

However, Bill had loved music since he first heard his father play
the violin, and he was always thrilled when he watched him lead the
gay Marine Band. Finally, when the boy was six years old, Captain
Santelmann gave in to his pleading and bought him a small violin. He at
once began to give Bill music lessons and was very proud of his son’s
love of practicing and his rapid progress.

When Bill entered the McKinley Training High School, he resisted the
temptation to try out for any of the athletic teams. Instead he signed
up for the orchestra where he was made a welcome member. He also
studied at the Washington College of Music from which he was graduated
in 1920. Then he left his home and native city to enroll at the New
England Conservatory of Music in Boston, Massachusetts.

There young Santelmann studied under a staff of famous instructors.
Playing in the orchestra, he enjoyed the association with some of the
members of the Boston Symphony Orchestra who often played with the
Conservatory group in order to gain practice and experience. During the
time Bill was in this school he met Margaret Randall, an organ student
from Ohio. He knew this was the girl he would marry some day.

Although Mr. Santelmann was willing and financially able to pay his
son’s expenses at school, William wanted to help out. He did this by
teaching at Groton, a well-known school for boys.

After his graduation from the Conservatory, William Santelmann returned
home to Washington, D. C., where he has lived ever since. “In fact,” he
said recently, “we Santelmanns like Washington. My sisters and brothers
all live here too.”

In September, 1923, he entered the U. S. Marine Band, thereby achieving
a boyhood ambition. As all bandsmen were required to play both a band
and an orchestra instrument, William chose for his second instrument
the euphonium which his father had also played in the same band.

William Santelmann progressed from rank to rank until he was the
concert master of the symphony orchestra. In 1927 his father retired
and Captain Taylor Branson then assumed the leadership with William
as second leader. Thirteen years later Captain Branson retired and
presented William with the same baton that his father had used.

Exceptionally well-trained in the traditions and duties of the Marine
Band, Major Santelmann is a successful leader, well-liked by his men
and popular in Washington. His enjoyable programs for state affairs
and for other occasions have won high praise. After the concerts which
he arranged for the visit of the rulers of England, Major Santelmann
received personal thanks from King George and Queen Elizabeth.

Another unusual occasion which Major Santelmann will never forget
was the concert played on the White House lawn, May 20, 1943. Prime
Minister Churchill had requested a program of Stephen Foster ballads
and American war songs. The audience was made up of President
Roosevelt, Prime Minister Churchill, McKenzie-King of Canada and all
the other members of the war planning staffs of America and England.
Just as the band began to play the first number, the rain poured down
in torrents. Nevertheless the drenched listeners sat through it all
while Roosevelt and Churchill sang and whistled with the band.

The Santelmanns live on a half acre of ground in Virginia. Major
Santelmann said, “I did marry my college sweetheart! In fact, we are
still sweethearts although we celebrated our twenty-fifth anniversary
in May, 1950.” They have two children, William Jr. and Betty Jane.

Major Santelmann’s hobbies center around his home too. “Yes, I have
a hobby,” said he, “several of them in fact. I like to work with my
hands, anything that is good hard work.” He has made cement blocks and
covered an attractive terrace with them. He gives his garden a great
deal of time in its season, and he likes to chop wood. By trimming and
cutting the trees on his own land, Major Santelmann supplies all the
wood needed for the fireplace.

These hobbies have kept him physically fit and mentally alert for his
exacting job. For Major Santelmann is successfully carrying on the
ideals and high standards of his famous band, “The President’s Own.”


_The U. S. Navy Band_

The _Brandywine_, an American man-of-war, entered on her payroll of
July 26, 1825, the name of James F. Draper, a musician at “ten dollars
per month.” This was the first name on the band list of our Navy, but
other names were added rapidly. James F. Draper, whether fifer or
drummer we do not know, may not have rated as much of a musical man in
his day, but his name is the first of a noted organization in the world
of music.

Soon other ships had three or four musicians whom they called out on
special occasions. When battles with pirates and other enemy ships
thinned the numbers of the crews, the bands were sent ashore to recruit
men to fill their quotas. The bands marched through the streets, loudly
rolling their drums and tooting their shrill fifes, to call landsmen to
join them in sailing the seas to find treasure and adventure.

Thirteen years later, 1838, a naval band was officially entered in the
Pay-Table of the Navy’s Register. It consisted of a bandmaster, four
first-class musicians, and one second-class musician. From that time
on, bands were found on many ships, but this increase in the number of
navy bands was due to the wishes of the individual commanders of ships,
fleets and stations.

Their instruments were drums, fifes and trumpets. The music aboard
ships was available for balls, entertainment programs, and funeral
services. Some ships carried fine bands of as many as twenty players
each. These bands became very popular and were soon considered a part
of a ship’s life.

There was no distinction made between the musicians and the ordinary
seamen. The bandsmen had to perform regular sailors’ duties such as
shoveling coal, scrubbing the decks or doing whatever they were called
on to do. In the beginning they were rated as seamen. After the year
1830, musicians were entered as first-class though they were still paid
ten dollars per month.

In battle, bandsmen, like other sailors, had their own posts assigned
to them. In the early days when they served as ammunition passers so
many received injuries to their hands that the bands were depleted. It
was then decided to detail them as stretcher bearers.

Bandsmen always keep on at their regular schedule of musical business,
even in wartime unless engaged in battle. Rehearsals are held in the
morning, concerts on deck at noon for the crew, and concerts for the
officers in the evening. The band plays at all ceremonies. It plays
colors when the ship is lying in port, plays at Sunday morning church
services on the ship and also for a Sunday evening concert.

During World War I band music was very popular. Everyone--soldiers,
sailors and civilians--wanted music, and the government gave them
good music. Outstanding Navy bandleaders directed the finest talent
obtainable in playing the music that everyone loved to hear. There were
Sousa’s thrilling marches and there were songs that inspired courage
and gave cheer--_Over There_, _Smiles_, _Keep The Home Fires Burning_
and dozens of others. In this period, America’s noted “March King,”
John Philip Sousa, took over the leadership of the Great Lakes Navy
Band and made it a world-famous organization.

With the Armistice came the breaking up of the marvelous service
bands. But the Navy Department, now fully aware of the great necessity
for band music, appointed a musical unit to officially represent the
United States Navy. They chose their foremost musical group, The
Navy Yard Band of Washington, D. C. The selection of a leader was
most important, but after careful consideration, Bandmaster Charles
Benter was appointed to the post. Lieutenant Benter left a successful
term of service on the _U.S.S. Connecticut_ to reorganize and direct
the Navy’s band of eighteen members. That the new leader was well
qualified was soon plain to all. By 1923 Lieutenant Benter had
sixty-three enthusiastic, capable performers playing twenty varieties
of instruments. Under this able director, the Washington Navy Yard Band
soon made a place in the hearts of all in the Capital city.

A special act of Congress, signed by President Coolidge on his
inauguration day, made this organization the permanent, official band
of the United States Navy. Congress also gave the U. S. Navy Band the
official right to play for three organizations: the American Legion,
the DAR and the American Red Cross. The band’s name was changed
from the Washington Navy Yard Band to the United States Navy Band.
Another noticeable change was made then,--the band gave up wearing the
traditional bell-bottomed trousers, adopting instead the regulation
Chief Petty Officers’ uniform, dark blue in winter and white in summer.

The United States Navy Band spends its working time in Washington, D.
C. within the walls of the Naval gun factory. Their great library is
housed here and also their valuable band instruments. In the huge,
historic, sail loft the band practices, gives concerts and plays its
radio broadcasts.

The regular duties of the U. S. Navy Band include playing at the
Presidential Inauguration ceremonies, at many White House affairs, and
in numerous parades held in the Capital. The U. S. Navy Band plays at
the funeral services of all Navy men buried in Arlington Cemetery,
as well as at funerals of statesmen, congressmen and other prominent
officials.

The Navy Band has toured the United States playing in most of the large
cities in every state. Canada, where it is a great favorite, Alaska,
Panama, Cuba, Puerto Rico, Jamaica, Haiti and the Virgin Islands, have
all been visited by this popular organization.

Many young men are eager to enlist in the Navy Band. They are attracted
by its glamour and by the opportunity to get a good education and to
see the world. But it isn’t easy to get into the music department of
the United States Navy.

Every candidate must have a high school education or its equivalent and
must pass the tough mental and physical examinations when he enlists.
If he passes these--and not everyone does--he goes up against stiff
examinations of his aptitude in music and his training and experience
in it. Then follows a period of basic training in a “boot” camp. After
this comes the _real_ test, an eighteen months’ course of hard work in
the United States Navy School of music in the Washington Navy Yard. He
studies ear training, harmony, theory, music history, two instruments
and band music--all of these added to the regular military discipline
and drill. After this course is all completed these well-trained Navy
musicians are sent in regular band units aboard battleships, cruisers
and carriers. Eventually some fortunate bandsmen return to Washington
to fill vacancies in the U. S. Navy Band.

The whole idea of the Navy School of Music was planned and carried out
by Lieutenant Benter during his leadership of the Navy Band. After
almost twenty-five years in this service, Lieutenant Benter retired
from his post January 1, 1942. He passed on his baton to Charles
Brendler, the Assistant Band Leader, a member of the Navy Band since
1917. At this time the Navy School of Music was removed from the
supervision of the U. S. Navy Band, and Lieutenant James M. Thurmand,
Jr. was made director of it.

When Commander Brendler took over the leadership of the U. S. Navy
Band he began to work on his theory that the band should play all types
of music for all kinds of people. He increased the organization to
one hundred members, and he also formed a number of different units
within it. Most of these players are accomplished symphony orchestra
performers and a dozen or more are recognized soloists. The Navy Band
contains a complete symphony orchestra; a modern “swingphonette” which
plays equally well light opera or the latest “bebop”; and small groups
for dances or concert programs.

This versatile band has broadcast thousands of radio programs, of
which the “Navy Hour” is the best known. Their summer evening concerts
on Capitol Hill are attended by huge throngs of devoted listeners.
Commander Brendler loves music and music-lovers, and wants his band,
which he pronounces _the world’s finest_, to play for all America.
Truly this _is_ a band for all the people.


COMMANDER CHARLES BRENDLER

_United States Navy Band_


Fifteen-year-old Charles Brendler, hugging his precious clarinet under
his arm, without a word to his father, mother, or anyone, left home to
join the United States Navy. He loved music more than anything in the
world and was determined to give his whole time to it. Like many boys
of his age, Charles had become fascinated by the Navy advertisements.
He thought if he belonged to a band on a United States ship he would
have nothing to do but practice and play.

Learning that the _U.S.S. Florida_ was anchored at the dock in New
York, he made his way to find her. Carefully he watched his chance and
climbed aboard, unseen by anyone. Luckily Charles fell into friendly
hands. He was permitted to tell his story and to prove his unusual
talent as a clarinet player. As a result Charles Brendler won a berth
on the _U.S.S. Florida_ September 26, 1913. He was rated as a “landsman
for musician.” When his parents found out where he was and what he was
doing, they willingly consented to his plans.

Charles, the son of Ivan and Mary Brendler, was born in New York City
in 1898, on Lincoln’s birthday, February 12. He was a happy, busy
little boy whose greatest pleasure seemed to be in listening to the
music of a band. There were plenty of bands for him to hear on the
streets and in the parks of that great city, but soon Charles began to
want to make his own music. The Brendlers realized that a small boy
who had such an early love for music was unusual. They bought him a
clarinet, and in a short time the ten-year-old boy was playing in the
band in his grade school in Brooklyn.

At thirteen Charles was a cadet in John Wanamaker’s department store,
playing in the boys’ band of that establishment. Wanamaker’s then had
a school for the cadets and they also hired a capable director for the
band.

The bandleader at this time was Frederick D. Woods, an Englishman who
had come to America with a musical comedy company from London. Woods
liked this new country so well that he made his home in New York and
became conductor of the Wanamaker Band.

At the very first rehearsal Woods discovered Charles’s talent. In a
cadenza the tones of one clarinet rang clear and true while the other
players stumbled.

“Repeat that cadenza, please,” said Woods, looking at Charles. Again he
played the passage perfectly.

“You are Charles Brendler?” asked Woods.

“Yes, sir,” the boy replied.

“Please see me after rehearsal,” said the instructor.

Charles wondered whether Mr. Woods was going to let him stay in the
band.

“How long have you been playing the clarinet?” asked the leader after
band practice.

“Since I was ten years old, sir.”

After asking him where and how much he had studied, he relieved
Charles’s mind by saying, “You are so advanced in your playing that I
should like to give you some special help in your music. I think you
can go far.”

The training Charles received from Woods was invaluable. This fine
musician has been a great influence and inspiration throughout
Brendler’s years. The Commander says today, “Mr. Woods was a thorough
musician and a wonderful teacher. I owe him a great deal.”

Young Brendler learned rapidly. He soon became soloist in the Wanamaker
Band and he also played in the orchestra of the old Academy of Music in
New York. It was then, when only fifteen, that Charles decided to make
music his life work and enlisted in the U. S. Navy.

Aboard the _Florida_ this boy, never before outside of New York,
embarked on a six-weeks’ Mediterranean cruise. Once, when asked if
he were homesick on this first trip, Commander Brendler replied,
“Homesick? I never knew the meaning of that word.”

When trouble arose between the United States and Mexico in 1914, the
_U.S.S. Florida_ went to Vera Cruz. There our young bandsman had his
first experience under shellfire. The first of the many ribbons with
which he is decorated today was won at that time.

Brendler, still aboard the _Florida_, served through the entire World
War I. He returned to Washington, after three exciting years aboard
ship, to become a member of the U. S. Navy Yard Band, which then
numbered eighteen men.

When the Navy Yard Band was reorganized in 1919, Charles Brendler took
his first big step upward toward his goal: He was selected for the
chair of solo clarinet in the U. S. Navy Band.

The Navy Band headquarters is not far from the Library of Congress,
and there the ambitious musician resumed his studies. He took a course
in music history under Carl Engel, Chief of the Music division of
the Library. In addition Brendler availed himself of the marvelous
opportunity to read, fairly devouring two or more books each week. He
read many subjects: history, biography, criticism, and everything he
could find about music, including innumerable music scores and their
various arrangements, and all the grand operas.

Because of his fine musicianship, Brendler was promoted to Chief
Musician, and in 1937 was appointed Assistant Leader. When the
Conductor, Lieutenant Benter, retired from service in 1942, Brendler
received the appointment to his place and his rank. He gained his
highest achievement in 1947, when he was given the rating of Lieutenant
Commander of the famous U. S. Navy Band then numbering eighty-eight
men. Brendler is the first musician in the regular navy to gain that
rank. When John Philip Sousa was made Lieutenant Commander, the honor
was _conferred_ on him by the Navy. Commander Brendler _won_ his title,
step by step.

Commander Brendler reached the top rank with many honors. He has
been awarded the degree of Doctor of Music by Washington University.
He is a member of the Press Club of Washington, also of the Variety
Club. He is an honorary member--the only one--of the exclusive White
House Correspondents’ Club. He belongs to the American Bandmasters’
Association, and other honorary groups.

Lining the walls of the Commander’s studio adjoining the Sail Loft,
are various certificates and honorary awards from dignitaries in many
states, beginning with far-off Texas. Outstanding among these documents
is a citation from the late James Forrestal which reads in part:

  “The Secretary of the Navy takes pleasure in commending Lieutenant
  Charles Brendler, United States Navy, for service as set forth in the
  following citation.

      “For outstanding performance of duty as Leader, United States
      Navy Band.... By his excellent leadership and musical ability,
      Lieutenant Brendler effected a musical organization which has
      gained an enviable reputation throughout the Nation and has earned
      recognition as one of the country’s leading and most versatile
      musical groups....

                                                 James Forrestal
                                                 Secretary of the Navy.”

Commander Brendler is married and has two grown children, who are
both musical--but “home performers,” not professional. His son Ivan
was graduated from the Maryland University in 1950. His daughter Alma
(“Rickie”), is also a Maryland U. graduate. Both the son and daughter
are married.

A handsome, genial, gentleman is Commander Brendler; five feet, nine
inches tall, with dark brown hair and dark blue eyes. He is possessed
of a warm personality combined with a gracious, dignified manner. A
perfect master of music, the Commander has composed several successful
marches; among them are _Aye, Aye, Sir_, _The Fighting Fleet_ and _The
Navy E_. Although the Navy Band has an extensive and varied repertoire
of more than 20,000 compositions, Commander Brendler invariably
conducts from memory.

When asked about his hobbies Commander Brendler said, “Music has always
completely absorbed me. When I was about nineteen or twenty years of
age, I had a great love for Opera. At twenty-five I had turned to
Tchaikovsky; at thirty-five my favorite was Brahms; at forty it was
Wagner. I still ‘fall apart’ at a Wagner concert and when my band plays
Wagner.”

At fifteen Charles Brendler wanted a job that would give him more time
for his music. At fifty Commander Charles Brendler as Chief of the U.
S. Navy Band has little time for anything but music. And that’s the way
he wants it.


_The U. S. Army Band_

It was World War I. General Pershing was reviewing his troops in
France. Suddenly he exclaimed to his aide, “Listen! Are our bands
playing? I can’t hear them!”

The General was surprised and ashamed at the pitiful showing made by
the United States Bands’ music in comparison with that of the Allied
soldiers. France, Belgium and England had fine bands of from eighty
to ninety men, all well-trained and experienced. The U. S. players,
twenty-eight in each group, had been hastily taken from various
regiments. With little or no training they had been ordered to play
together.

“Black Jack” Pershing looked blacker than ever. “This won’t do!” he
exclaimed. “Something _must_ be done at once!”

Although the General did not know what to do about the situation,
he knew who would. He cabled the United States Army Headquarters in
Washington, D. C. and asked for Walter Damrosch, America’s foremost
music authority.

Dr. Damrosch immediately crossed the Atlantic to prescribe for the
U.S.A. Bands. He visited the various army bands in the Chaumont area.
He interviewed and examined every bandleader. Then he gave his report
to General Pershing. “Give the bands many, many more musicians and have
them all trained under competent bandmasters.”

This was made a rush order. Players were selected from the army ranks
to form bands of from sixty to eighty men. Capable, experienced leaders
were installed in camps to train numerous bandleaders in France and in
similar camps in the United States, to make sure that additional bands
would be prepared for service. From that time on the United States
forces marched to the accompaniment of live, powerful music played by
capable bands. And the General of the A.E.F. was proud of his Army
Bands.

At the end of the War, General Pershing returned to Washington, D. C.
as the U. S. Army’s Chief of Staff. One of the first things he did was
to order the organization of a great United States Army Band for use in
peace and war.

His command was at once carried out and a new band was built around the
small group of honored bandsmen who had played in “General Pershing’s
Own” overseas.

Under the leadership of Warrant Officer Francis Leigh the band entered
training October 21, 1921, at the Army War College in Washington, D.
C. Soon the formerly neglected Army Band was brought into its rightful
place in the realm of music. The first public appearance of the U.S.A.
Band was on November 21, 1921, when it led the funeral procession of
the Unknown Soldier to the tomb in Arlington Cemetery.

Captain William J. Stannard who led the Army Band from 1923 to 1935,
greatly increased the activities of the organization. A concert group
and several small ensembles were formed within the band. During Captain
Stannard’s leadership radio programs were initiated. Although these
performances were much enjoyed by the public, they required many hours
of planning and rehearsing.

However, not all the services of the U. S. Army Band have taken place
within the United States itself. This was the first band ever sent out
of the country by the government as an ambassador of good will.

In 1929 Captain Stannard and his men represented the United States at
the Iberian-American Exposition in Seville, Spain. The band gave sixty
concerts, including a command performance in Madrid, for King Alfonso
XIII and the royal family.

The Pan-American Union in Washington chose the U. S. Army Band to be
the official music ambassador on this occasion. They considered it
excelled all other organizations in exploiting Latin-American music in
the United States.

Captain Thomas F. Darcy, Jr., the third leader of the Army Band took
office in July, 1935. He had a brilliant military record in World War
I, during which time he had been wounded. At twenty-two years of age,
as the leader of the 18th Infantry, First Division, A.E.F., Darcy
was the youngest bandleader ever appointed to the regular army. He
had received extensive music training in Europe and ranked high as a
composer, conductor, cornetist and arranger.

Captain Darcy installed several new features into the band programs,
especially in the radio performances. He also originated many
attractive special ceremonies in connection with governmental functions.

During World War II, Captain Darcy and his band sailed on a tour of the
combat area to carry music and entertainment to the men on the actual
battle fronts. From Casablanca to Algiers, Tunisia, Italy, France,
Germany and the British Isles, the U. S. Army Band traveled through two
full years. They played more than 500 concerts to hundreds of thousands
of lonely GI’s and unhappy civilians. They were brought home on army
planes just in time to welcome General Eisenhower on his return June
18, 1945. And at the Washington airport, the Army’s own band greeted
their victorious General with four ruffles and four flourishes and the
triumphant _General’s March_.

On the twentieth anniversary of the first radio broadcast by the U. S.
Army Band the following commendation was received by Captain Darcy.

  “It gives me real pleasure and no small degree of satisfaction, that
  this outstanding musical organization was created by my orders,
  issued when I was Chief of Staff of the Army. It was my hope then,
  that in due course, it would come to be unsurpassed by any similar
  organization the world over, and I feel that none can today deny it
  this recognition....”

                                                     “John J. Pershing.”

Captain Darcy retired in September, 1945, relinquishing the office to
the former Chief Warrant Officer, Hugh Curry. The new bandleader was a
thoroughly trained musician, a professional violinist and a well-known
singer. Forsaking a career successfully begun in light opera, Officer
Curry had joined the U. S. Army Band in North Africa, in 1943. In
his post as assistant bandleader during the European tour, he became
perfectly acquainted with the needs of the band.

Upon Curry’s accession to leadership he reorganized the band. More
members were desired and applicants poured in from every part of the
United States. Each one was carefully examined, tested and auditioned
and a band of one hundred was selected. Within this number a marching
band, a concert band, several small ensembles, a complete dance
orchestra and a chorus of twenty-five fine voices were organized.

Many in the dance orchestra had been members of nationally known “name”
bands. This group can play any type of dance music upon request. Two
competent assistant leaders are associated with Captain Curry: 1st
Lieutenant Samuel Laboda and 2nd Lieutenant Herbert Hoyer.

The members of the United States Army Band wear specially tailored
uniforms. The pockets on the coats are large enough to carry their
octavo size music, and are buttoned closely to prevent any instrument
being caught in them. On state occasions in the winter the men wear
either a special olive drab uniform or their official army dress blues.
During hot weather they are comfortably clad in tan tropical worsteds.
On their left shoulder is a light blue arc tab with the words, “The U.
S. Army Band,” embroidered on it in white.

The Army Band presents an attractive picture in spick and span uniforms
and the various polished instruments. Especially noticeable are the
modern, up-to-the-minute “mechanized” bass drums and tympani mounted on
wheels, and the historic “Spirit of ’76” snare drums.

Stationed in the Capital the Army Band participates in all Army
ceremonies. It is frequently called on to give its services to various
celebrations and parades, for Washington is the most popular place in
the country for parades. The Army Band expresses the Nation’s welcome
by playing to greet visiting royalty, foreign diplomats and other
prominent guests.

It is always present at the Cherry Blossom fete and the opening
baseball game of the season when the President of the United States
throws the first ball. There are also sad occasions such as the funeral
of a United States President or some high-ranking government official.
Then the Army Band marches slow, playing a funeral march with muted
instruments and black-draped, muffled drums. And as a contrast, the U.
S. Army Band, flashing its brilliantly polished instruments, marches
and plays in Washington’s proudest ceremony, the impressive inaugural
pageant.

The U.S.A. marching band, the Concert Band and the chorus are all
popular with Washington people and these band units give their services
generously. They give regular programs at the Walter Reed hospital and
the various other Veterans’ institutions. In the summer the Army Band
presents concerts at the Watergate--the floating stage on the Potomac
at the foot of Constitution Avenue. The series of winter concerts are
held in the Departmental Auditorium. Weekly, on summer evenings, the
U.S.A. Band takes its turn--as do the other service bands--in playing
for the enthusiastic crowds who gather in the plaza before the East
Front of the Capitol.

The mission of the U.S.A. Band is to serve the Army and the people.


CAPTAIN HUGH J. CURRY

_Leader of U. S. Army Band_

Clear and sweet the tones of a boy’s soprano voice rang out in an
age-old Christmas carol, while the class whole-heartedly joined in
the chorus. The music period in that third grade school room was a
pleasure shared by the pupils and their teacher. They all enjoyed
singing with Hugh Curry. And _how_ Hugh liked to sing!

Music occupied a large place in the Curry home in Cambridge,
Massachusetts. It was a great part of the regular family life. Both
Mr. and Mrs. Curry were talented musicians. Hugh Curry, Sr., was a
well-known amateur violinist as well as a popular singer.

Helen, the daughter of the family, made music her profession. She
became the head of the Music Department of Teachers’ College at
Fitchburg, Massachusetts. Hugh Curry, Jr., born in 1911, was reared
in a fine musical atmosphere. From such a heritage and environment he
naturally turned to music. He sang from his earliest years.

Soon the boy wanted to produce other music. Singing was really a part
of him, but it was not enough to satisfy him. He begged to be allowed
to play an instrument, and at the age of nine he began to study the
trumpet. Then as his voice developed, vocal study was added to Hugh’s
educational subjects.

Although devoted to music, Hugh was a good student and made outstanding
records in his other, less showy studies. An all-round American boy, he
was very fond of sports. No one ever dreamed of calling Hugh Curry a
“sissy.” As a valuable member of the school’s baseball team and an ice
hockey star, Hugh was extremely popular.

By the time he was ready to enter college Hugh Curry had won
recognition as a professional musician in both vocal and instrumental
fields. He enrolled at Boston University and his musical activities
helped defray a large share of the expenses of his college education.

Curry was graduated from the University with a Bachelor of Music
degree. Soon after his graduation, he married a college classmate, the
former Kathleen Howard, prominent as a light opera singer. Curry began
his professional career as an instructor in the U. S. Army School of
Music. From the New York College of Music he was awarded the degree
of Honorary Doctor of Music. He became increasingly active in Music
Education and also achieved great success in light opera.

In 1941 Hugh Curry joined the United States Army. A thorough musician,
a talented violinist and singer, as Chief Warrant Officer he was
appointed Assistant Bandleader of the Army Band in North Africa. Curry
worked with the Band all through the African-European tour to cheer and
entertain the fighting men.

Captain Curry commented personally regarding this period. “While the
United States Army Band was the only major service music organization
to tour the combat area during World War II, it must be pointed out
that such an experience and its unceasing companion, mental, physical,
and spiritual discomforts seem glamorous to the men only in retrospect.
The route of the Band through these areas was designed primarily to
permit the organization to reach the maximum number of allied troops,
and the needs of the Band were often sacrificed in order to bring
our men a few moments of relaxation. In those hectic days of rapidly
fluctuating battle lines, the Band, hampered by its necessary but
unwieldy burden of instruments, was often exposed. Even in Antwerp,
Belgium, an Army bandsman was wounded by a V-2 rocket bomb.”

When Bandleader Captain Darcy retired in September, 1945, he was
succeeded by Captain Hugh Curry. A thorough reorganization was
instituted. More new members were desired and applicants poured in
from every part of the United States. All were carefully screened,
not only in proficiency on their individual instruments, but also
their adaptability to all types of music. Each was thoroughly tested,
examined, auditioned and even his vocal ability was judged.

Finally Captain Curry enrolled more than one hundred of America’s
finest bandsmen in the United States Army Band. They represent a large
cross section of colleges, universities, symphony orchestras and many
name dance bands, as well as almost every important American music
school. Even the American Indian is represented by a full-blooded
member of the Onondaga tribe. While at the very heart of the
organization is a small and respected group of men remaining from the
original “Pershing’s Own” Band.

Technicians, skilled arrangers and other necessary personnel have been
added by Captain Curry to this perfectly balanced Army Band. Today, the
United States Army Band under its handsome, dignified leader, is able
to provide prompt and efficient response to the many demands laid upon
it.


_The United States Army Air Forces Band_

The United States Army Air Forces needed a band. It had to be a good
band too, one that would keep pace with--or better still--_lead_ the
streamlined Air Forces.

In 1942 Warrant Officer Alf Heiberg was appointed to organize and
lead the new band. At Bolling Field, Washington, D. C., the national
Headquarters of the U. S. Army Air Force, Officer Heiberg found a
saxophone quartette happily playing “on their own.” With this group
for a nucleus he began to assemble his band. It was an easier job than
Heiberg had anticipated for there were many experienced and outstanding
musicians among the fliers who were eager to play, and an adequate
number of men were soon enrolled. They were all enthusiastic and
practiced so faithfully that in an unbelievably short time the United
States Air Force had a good band, one that compared favorably with the
other service bands.

A new leader was assigned in March, 1944, Captain George Sallade
Howard. He was the ideal man for the job, a man with talent, training
and ideas. A highly educated musician. Captain Howard at forty
had spent half his years in music teaching and directing bands and
orchestras. An inspiring conductor, Captain Howard also possessed many
original ideas which soon began to produce unusual results in his work
with this new band.

After two months of intensive practice the Air Force Band went on a
concert tour throughout eastern Canada. It was acclaimed by the critics
as the finest concert band ever heard.

Upon returning to Washington the Band played at a command performance
at the White House. That the program was successful was evident, as
the Air Force Band was immediately sent on an exchange tour of Great
Britain which brought the RAF Central Band to America.

From their first program in Royal Albert Hall in London, the Air Force
Band was praised in highest terms by the foremost English musicians. At
that time Britain was living on extremely short food and fuel rations.
Many concerts were played by the Bandsmen bundled up in their heavy
overcoats, and at times, even wearing their hats and gloves.

On account of the cold weather, and the unheated buildings, the people
in England generally had colds. Consequently the audiences coughed
noisily during the concerts, but they were enthusiastic over the fine
playing of the great Air Force Band from America. Frequent air raids
and buzz bombs also interfered with concert programs. After the “Battle
of the Bulge” Captain Howard and his band returned to the United
States.

At the end of the war in 1945, this Air Force group was disbanded.
However, the United States Army Air Forces could not do without
their fine band. Captain Howard had established his reputation as
an unusually capable conductor. He was transferred to the permanent
Air Force with the rank of Major and given the duty of organizing a
permanent Air Force Band.

Only five of the one-hundred-piece wartime band were willing to
reenlist. Major Howard had to start his new organization from the
very beginning. He had decided ideas regarding the possibilities of a
large military band and he proceeded to put them in force. Determined
to have only the best musicians, he used the utmost care in selecting
the players. Fully 1,100 men applied for admission and each one was
critically auditioned.

One hundred and fifteen players were selected--a rare group--so many
were experts, men who had occupied top places in topmost organizations.
Some had been graduated from outstanding universities, others had
played in famous orchestras, symphonic and popular swing bands. One
player had been a symphony concertmeister, and the famous baritone
soloist, Glenn Darwin, came from the Metropolitan Opera Company.

For his first assistant Major Howard appointed Chief Warrant Officer
John F. Yesulaitis, who was not only a graduate in music, but also had
an extensive military experience. He had been a bandleader in World
War II and in charge of the 7th and 77th Infantry division bands in the
South and West Pacific. He is the most decorated member of the band
having made every landing and taken part in every important campaign in
the Pacific.

Robert L. Landers, the director of the band’s famous glee club, “The
Singing Sergeants,” is an important member of the Major’s staff. He has
a Bachelor of Music degree from the Eastman School of Music, studied
under Sir Thomas Beecham, Assistant Conductor of the San Carlo Opera
Company, Leader of 529th Air Force Band at Atlantic City and also at
Buckley Field in Denver.

These, and many other gifted artists, make up a splendid ensemble who
are able at the same time to make their individual talents apparent.
From this versatile organization, Colonel Howard--he was made a Lt.
Colonel in 1949--can send out a marching band of one hundred or more
men. He can choose eighty to ninety to form a symphonic band, seventy
or as many as he likes for a concert orchestra. He has several dance
bands, chamber music sextettes, and a well-balanced glee club.

A staff of music writers are kept at work making new arrangements, a
well-trained narrator announces the program descriptions and reads
the necessary script. And the maestro of this great band supervises
the building of the programs which he rehearses and conducts for
radio, concert stage and military duty. Besides these performances
they average three concert tours a year, provide music for important
military and state functions and represent the United States Air Force
musically. The Air Force Band is usually in attendance when foreign
diplomats or royalty happen to be in the Capital. During the summer
military band concerts are given in various centers of Washington,
and orchestra concerts are played during the winter in the Lisner
auditorium. The concerts by the Air Force Band, as well as those by the
other Service Bands, are free to the public.

Colonel Howard says, “We wanted a unit that was as streamlined as
the Air Forces themselves.... We desired a band that could give a
performance of _Scheherazade_ or _The Flying Dutchman_ comparable to
that by any symphony orchestra, and in the next breath could rival
Benny Goodman.”

In this they have succeeded.


LT. COLONEL GEORGE S. HOWARD

_Leader of the U.S.A. Air Force Band_

George Sallade Howard, son of Florence and Hayden Howard, was born
February 24, 1903, in Reamstown, Pennsylvania. His father had been a
soldier in the Spanish-American War and his Grandfather Howard a member
of the Union Cavalry during the Civil War. George, the only son, liked
to listen to his father’s thrilling war stories, and they had fought
over the Spanish-American battles many times.

Although there was much music around the Howard home, young George
Sallade Howard, the only child, didn’t want to be a musician. His
mother was a professional pianist and Grandfather Sallade who lived
with them was a former bandleader and clarinetist. But George would
have no lessons from either of them.

But no one needed to tell Grandfather Sallade that George would some
day be a great clarinet player, because he _knew_ it. He knew it by
the way George listened to music and by the questions he asked about
the clarinet. However no one urged the boy to study music until he was
ready.

That time came when at the age of fifteen he entered high school and
heard the school band. Rushing home the first day, he announced, “I’m
going to be in the band, and I want to play the clarinet. Will you
teach me, Grandfather?”

His music-loving family knew that home instruction was not always
satisfactory, so they sent him to study under a local teacher. He had
more questions than ever to ask his grandfather, but it was many years
later when George realized how much help and encouragement he had
received from him during his school band days.

From high school George went to Ithaca College, Ithaca, New York,
having won a three-year music scholarship there. Although his parents
were well able to meet his college expenses, George earned all his
spending money by playing in the Ithaca Theater Orchestra.

After receiving his degree from Ithaca, George started collecting more
sheepskins. He studied at Ohio Wesleyan until he received his A.B.
degree, then went on to Chicago Conservatory for his degree of Master
of Music. His ambition still unsatisfied, he secured his Master’s
degree at New York University and returned to Chicago Conservatory for
his doctorate of music.

With all this extensive preparation and an armful of degrees, George
Howard at the age of nineteen, began his career in Patrick Conway’s
famous band. Five years later he was the clarinet soloist, a chair he
held for two years.

Then he left the concert field to become an educator in the music
field. He was asked to return to his first college, Ithaca, this time
to teach clarinet and saxophone. From Ithaca he went to the second
college he had attended, Ohio Wesleyan University, as instructor of
wind pedagogy.

As George Howard’s reputation as a leader and teacher spread, he was
in great demand. He accepted the job of Director of Music at the
widely-known national home for young people maintained by the Moose
Lodge in Mooseheart, Illinois. Here the Mooseheart Band under his
direction won the Illinois state championship for four consecutive
years.

From 1936 to 1942 Howard was Director of Music at Pennsylvania State
Teachers College where they proudly tell about his achievements in
their music department during that time. Reluctantly they released him
“on leave” to the army.

His most satisfying experience came when he was sent to do special
service for the United States Army in Greenland, Iceland, Newfoundland,
and Labrador in 1942. He was given the rank of Captain and told that
his job was to build up the morale of the soldiers stationed there. He
traveled alone and found a new use for his talents and training.

To quote his own words, “I had always believed that music exerted a
greater influence on people than any other type of culture, and this
idea was fully verified when I took up my work on this assignment.
There were these lonely men, stationed in isolated places, and with no
entertainment during the long, sunless, winter hours. It was a fertile
field for music’s spell, but it was very difficult at first to arouse
their interest and cooperation.”

However Captain Howard’s wide experience had taught him how to make
contact with many types of people. Genial, earnest and dynamic, he
soon had an audience. He taught them to play on small, basic musical
instruments such as the ukelele, harmonica and tonettes. The tonette
is a midget clarinet that was very popular with U. S. troops the world
over. He helped organize dance orchestras, military bands, and even
“barber shop” quartettes.

“After a while,” continued the Captain, “music melted their hearts.
Often six or seven hundred crowded into the room to sing together
old songs and to learn new ones. Their faces, formerly dull and
unresponsive, showed their pleasure and enjoyment. The talent of
some of them surprised me. One soldier in Greenland made one of the
finest-toned violins I have ever heard from a few strands of wire, some
wood and a little glue.”

After Captain Howard had finished his assignment of setting up musical
programs in the North Atlantic Command, he returned to Washington, D. C.

In March, 1944, he transferred from the Army to the Air Force as
Commanding Officer and Conductor of the U. S. Air Force Band. He took
the band on a tour of Eastern Canada and then overseas to England,
Scotland and France.

When this unit was disbanded at the end of the war, Captain Howard had
proven his outstanding qualities as a musical director. He was given
the rank of major and a new assignment, that of establishing an Air
Force Band on a permanent basis.

The Air Force had found in Major Howard the one person who could
mold the kind of musical organization they wanted. Here was a young
conductor of forty years, a recipient of five degrees in Music, who
had a background of twenty years in the field of musical education.
With his added experiences and achievements in both Army and Air Force
music, Major Howard was a well-known man in the world of music. That
made it easier for him to assemble a group of outstanding musicians for
the new service band.

In 1949 the rank of Lt. Colonel was bestowed upon the Commandant of the
now internationally known U. S. Air Force Band.

Colonel Howard is doing what most people would call a super-human job.
When he was asked about his vacation, he said slowly, “Vacation. That
is something I dream about.”

Colonel Howard rides horseback when he can. He likes to read fiction
or to look at television or listen to his large collection of records
in his bachelor apartment in Washington. Redecorating his apartment
has grown to be a habit with the Colonel. Recently he has had three
side walls painted a vivid dark blue and the fourth side a copper tone.
The ceiling is white. The Colonel said, “This sounds startling, but it
really isn’t as bad as it sounds.”

Colonel Howard’s medals are quite impressive. Among them are the Legion
of Merit and the U. S. Army Commendation Ribbon with five oak leaf
clusters.

He is the author of many magazine articles and of _Ten Minute
Self-Instructor for Pocket Instruments_. Among his music compositions
are: _The Red Feather_ (theme song for Community Chest), _American
Doughboy_, _My Missouri_, _Niece of Uncle Sam_, and _General Spaatz
March_.

Lt. Colonel George S. Howard, “Chief of Bands and Music and Conductor,
U.S.A.F. Band and Orchestra,” has earned the respect and affection of
his musicians and of his public.




_Concert Bands_


JOHN PHILIP SOUSA

John Philip and his gang plunged through the weeds and briars along the
muddy bank of the Potomac!

“Come on! It’s a band on the avenue!” cried Philip, dashing ahead.
“Let’s hurry!”

This was a common occurrence in those exciting days. The War between
the States was just beginning, and Washington, D. C., the headquarters
of the Union Army, was a thrilling place to be.

The boys were kept busy watching the many activities. They saw officers
on horseback galloping importantly in all directions. They saw men
working furiously building large frame barracks for the soldiers or
huge corrals for the thousands of horses and mules.

And now Philip’s father, Antonio Sousa, had quit his place as trombone
player in the Marine Band and joined the Navy to do his part in
fighting the war.

Bands were playing everywhere, but Philip was so fond of music he never
grew tired of hearing them. He couldn’t keep away from a band or keep
his feet from stepping in time when he was near one. Every day Philip
Sousa slipped out of the house and attached himself to the first line
of blue-clad soldiers he could find. He ran alongside them until he
found the band. Sometimes he followed them all day long.

During the next few years the young boy saw many unusual sights. He saw
people gay over some battles and sad over others. And then one awful
morning Philip awoke to find the streets filled with crowds weeping
instead of laughing. He saw the Capital city draped in black and all
the flags hanging down low. When he asked about this, he was told that
the flags were at half-mast because President Lincoln had been shot.

It was at Lincoln’s funeral that Philip first realized how sad music
could be. The mournful sound of the muffled drums and the solemn,
minor strains of music played by the bands marching in the procession,
touched his young heart.

But the war scene that made the deepest impression upon Philip was
the grand parade of the victorious armies. Hundreds of thousands of
soldiers and countless bands marched in a procession so long that it
took two days to pass the White House. Young as he was, the boy made up
his mind that some day he would lead a marching band like these.

The war was ended. Antonio Sousa had come home and returned to his
place in the Marine Band. The family went back to their normal way of
living.

Antonio Sousa was of Portuguese parentage although he had been born
in Spain. When a young man he had come to America, to New York City.
He met and married Elizabeth Trinkhaus from Bavaria, who was visiting
relatives in Brooklyn. The young couple went to live in Washington, D.
C., and in a small brick house at 617 G Street, S.E. John Philip Sousa
had been born. There he grew to manhood “in the shadow of the Capitol,”
to use his own words.

The out-of-doors appealed to Philip; he liked to play with other boys
and go hunting and fishing with his father. But above everything else
the boy loved music. He was happy when he was allowed to visit the
nearby Marine Barracks during rehearsals. The bandsmen liked him and
often let him play the triangle or the cymbals.

When he was very young, Philip had begun to study the violin with an
old Spanish friend of his father. Later he studied in an Academy of
Music conducted by a son of his first teacher.

“I overheard the teacher ask my father to send me to his school,” said
Sousa. “I was terribly insulted when he said, ‘Even if he doesn’t learn
anything it will keep him off the street.’

“Although I neither answered a question asked by the teacher nor spoke
a word in school, I learned all he taught. I won all the medals he
offered in the examinations.... I have them yet, little gold lyres.”

Philip’s violin teacher found fault with his manner of bowing and they
had a fiery argument. Angry and disgusted, the boy decided to give up
music. He went to work at night in a bakery. His parents insisted that
he continue going to school in the daytime, but he could not carry
on such a sleepless, strenuous schedule. He gave up the bakery job
and returned to the Academy after his father had made peace with the
professor.

Although only thirteen years old, Philip organized his first band--a
quadrille band he called it. He played the first violin. Seven men,
all much older than he, played respectively: the second violin, viola,
bass, clarinet, cornet, trombone and drum. They became quite a famous
dance orchestra until young Sousa, urged by the other members asked
for an increase in pay. When the manager refused him, Philip quit. The
other members played on without a raise, but Sousa had lost his job.

Feeling very blue and despondent, Philip was quite in the mood to
accept an offer which came to him just then--to play in a circus band.
The job seemed full of gaiety and glamour, but he felt sure that his
parents would never give their consent. The circus agent also knew this
was true, but he finally won the boy’s promise to keep it a secret and
go with the company when it left Washington.

Under the cloak of secrecy the idea grew more appealing, but Philip
made the mistake of confiding in his friend who lived next door,
swearing him to secrecy. The boy promptly told his mother all about it.
_His_ mother, just as promptly, told Philip’s mother. Horror-struck she
went to her husband, but Philip’s father wisely said nothing to the boy.

The next day, however, Mr. Sousa and his son went out for a walk. The
walk ended at the Navy Yard where, a few hours before, Mr. Sousa had
conferred with the Commandant, General Zeilin. As a result John Philip
Sousa enlisted in the Marine Band June 9, 1868, as a music apprentice.

This was the beginning of Philip’s training for his real career. He
soon became an expert cornetist, but he did not neglect his violin
practice. And before long he had begun to compose music.

He made friends rapidly. Among them was the Honorable William Hunter,
Assistant Secretary of State. Mr. Hunter, a great lover of music,
each week invited a group of young students to his home for a musical
evening. He always gave them a bountiful supper and never failed to
slip a five-dollar bill into the pocket of his favorite, Philip.

After a few years the Marine Band began to lose its glamour for Sousa.
He wanted more independence. Through Mr. Hunter’s influence he was
released from the organization. He began to teach the violin, and
his classes grew fast. At the same time he took lessons from George
Benkert, a fine violinist. By playing first violin in the orchestra at
Ford’s Opera House, he was able to pay his way.

Soon Philip, a handsome young fellow of nineteen, accepted a position
as an orchestra leader in Chicago. And before long he went to
Philadelphia to play first violin in Offenbach’s Orchestra which had
come from France to play at the Centennial Celebration. He also played
in Mrs. John Drew’s popular theater orchestra. Later he managed and
coached a company of society folk in the Gilbert and Sullivan opera,
_Pinafore_.

Then young Philip Sousa fell in love with Jennie Bellis, a pretty
sixteen-year-old actress in the opera cast. In less than one year
they were married and living in a little home in Philadelphia. Three
children were born to them throughout the years, two girls and one boy,
Helen, Priscilla and Philip Jr.

On October 1, 1880, Sousa was recalled to Washington from Philadelphia
to conduct the Marine Band. He took the group of well-trained but
disorganized musicians and succeeded in establishing fine cooperation
and rare good feeling. _He built the Marine Band into the finest
marching band in all America._ “The President’s Own,” as it was called,
always played at the White House for social and state affairs.

At 26, Sousa was a man of distinctive appearance with his
square-trimmed black beard, gold-rimmed eyeglasses and his always
immaculate uniforms. He never failed to put on a pair of clean white
kid gloves for each performance. In later years after Sousa had
achieved great wealth, he stepped into a large Fifth Avenue store in
New York City and nonchalantly ordered twelve hundred pairs of white
kid gloves, at five dollars a pair.

Although Sousa conducted with a gracious dignity, he seldom smiled. Yet
his audience keenly felt his strong, magnetic personality. He had no
affectations or mannerisms but stood still in his place very erect,
swinging his arms in precise unison in his own individual fashion. The
music seemed to come from his expressive hands.

Sousa was a wonderful showman with a keen sense of spectacular
effects. Once when giving an outdoor evening concert, he noticed the
lights were turned on gradually. First a tiny speck appeared in the
darkness, slowly growing into a glaring blaze of light. That gave him
an idea. Sousa had his band begin the opening number, _Nearer My God
to Thee_, in a soft, tender pianissimo just as the faint beam of light
appeared. The music gradually increased in power as the lights grew
brighter, ending in an enormous crescendo as the illumination reached
its greatest strength. This was so impressive and pleasing that the
audience requested this hymn and the accompanying lighting effects be
played throughout the entire season.

The people, not only in the capital city but over the whole United
States, were enabled to hear the finest music of the time through
John Philip Sousa and the Marine Band. At his request Congress, for
the first time, granted permission for the U. S. Marine Band to make
concert tours over the country. Those opportunities were appreciated
for that was an era when a fine band was a great novelty. Many people
gladly traveled long distances to large cities to hear Sousa’s Marine
Band.

After twelve years Sousa retired from this great organization. A
syndicate of Chicago men asked him to come there and form a band
“which would not be excelled by any brass band on earth.” He was
offered a huge salary besides a generous interest in the profits. “And
in addition,” said Sousa, “they purchased a half interest in all my
manuscript compositions and in any others I may write through the next
five years. For twelve years, I have been conducting in Washington and
my heart is here, but this offer is too good to be refused.”

Sousa had no difficulty in forming his new organization in Chicago.
Soloists on the various band instruments and expert bandsmen from all
parts of the country, eager to join the famous bandmaster, applied for
membership.

Beginning at the Chicago World’s Fair in 1892, this noted concert band
traveled all over the United States, playing in every large town and
city. They toured many foreign countries and in addition, made one
trip around the world, winning the greatest success and honor wherever
they appeared. Sousa and his popular band gave command concerts for
England’s royalty, and it was a London newspaper man that gave him the
title of the “March King.”

Sousa believed that he was inspired to write marches by the influence
of the Civil War days during his childhood in Washington. At that time
the air was filled with the sound of marching troops and military
bands, and this impression had never left him. Sousa is said to have
been responsible for the great popularity of marches during the 1890
decade.

_The Stars and Stripes Forever_ came to him during an ocean voyage.
Called home by the death of his friend and manager, David Blakesly,
he sailed from Naples. He spent hours pacing back and forth on deck,
and this music came into his mind and would not leave. When he arrived
home, he immediately wrote the composition as he had heard it. This
march was published without any change at all, and from its various
sources earned Sousa over $300,000.

In World War I Sousa gave up his band and his huge salary to join the
Great Lakes Naval Reserve. He became conductor of the Great Lakes Band
for which he accepted only one dollar a month. He at once shaved off
his luxurious beard--“so the young fellows wouldn’t think me so much
older than they.”

The number of enlistments fairly swamped the band quarters. Hundreds
flocked to receive instruction from this noted bandmaster. There were
so many that Sousa organized a band battalion of 350 with a full quota
of officers. The remaining men he put into double battleship units
which were assigned to each regiment at the station and to different
ships as the Admirals requested. While he was with the Great Lakes
Band, Sousa designed a new band instrument--a mellow-toned horn to
replace the Helicon tuba with its harsh sound. This Sousaphone is in
use in all large bands today.

At the end of the war Sousa reassembled his concert band of eighty-four
top-notch players. This was generally acknowledged the finest concert
band of all time. He traveled with the group through six months of the
year and vacationed the remaining months. For some time Sousa refused
to broadcast as he disliked the radio. He said that he missed the
direct contact with his audience and the stimulation of its presence
and applause. However, when he was seventy-five years old, he accepted
the large salary offered him to play weekly broadcasts of one hour each.

Although the world at large knew Sousa as the March King, his more
than one hundred marches represent only a small part of his writings.
He also composed ten operas, including _El Capitan_, in which De Wolfe
Hopper starred. _The Queen of Hearts_, _The Bride Elect_, _Chris and
the Wonderful Lamp_, and _The Charlatan_, all big successes in their
day. He composed more than twenty suites, forty or fifty songs, and a
monumental work for orchestra, organ and choir, including _The Last
Crusade_. He wrote three novels: _Pipetown Sandy_, in which he devoted
a chapter describing the two-day march of the victorious U. S. Northern
army; _The Transit of Venus_; and _The Fifth String_. He was the author
of numerous magazine articles, and an illustrated biographical sketch
ran serially in the _Saturday Evening Post_ in 1925. His autobiography,
_Marching Along_, was published in 1928.

So many sources of income brought Sousa great wealth. He had always
liked to ride horseback, play golf, and shoot clay pigeons at the trap.
To indulge in these hobbies he bought a large farm--700 acres--in
North Carolina. There he also raised game birds--quail, grouse and
partridges, as well as dogs and horses. But Sousa really spent most of
his free time at his beautiful home at Sands Point on Long Island, New
York. There he was happiest when surrounded by his devoted wife and
family. There he often entertained his warm friends, among whom were
Thomas A. Edison, Victor Herbert, Irving Berlin and Charles Chaplin.

Sousa was seventy-eight years old when he died of a sudden heart
attack, March 6, 1932, at Reading, Pennsylvania. He had gone there
to lead the Ringgold band on its eightieth anniversary. His body was
brought home to Washington, his birthplace, and lay in state in the
bandroom of the Marine Barracks, where at the age of thirteen his
musical career had begun.

During his funeral the Senators and Representatives of the U. S.
Government paused in their proceedings to pay a tribute to John Philip
Sousa, whom they called “The world’s greatest composer of march music.”

Sousa is buried in the Congressional Cemetery on a grassy plot, not far
from his beloved Capitol.

“Wherever he has gone,” Deems Taylor wrote, “I am sure he has found a
welcome. There is a dining hall in the Elysian Fields marked Grade A
Composers Only. If you could look in at the door tonight, you would
probably see him there; perhaps not at the speakers’ table with Wagner
and Beethoven and Mozart and Bach and Debussy and the rest, but
somewhere in the room--at a small table, possibly, with Herbert and
Strauss and Delibes.

“‘However did _he_ get in here?’ asks some disapproving shade--a
small-town Kapellmeister, probably ... ‘Who got _him_ in?’

“The guide smiles, ‘The marching men. The men who had to go long miles,
on an empty belly, under a hot sun, or through a driving rain. They
made us take him in. They said he made things easier for them.’”


PATRICK SARSFIELD GILMORE

_The Father of the Concert Band_

Patrick Sarsfield Gilmore, America’s first great bandmaster, was born
on Christmas Day, 1829, in the village of Ballygar, County Galway,
Ireland. His parents hoped that he would go into the priesthood, but
that idea did not appeal to Patrick. He loved music more than anything
else in the world. Even when a very small boy he had a knack of making
his own toys from wood, wire or whatever he could find. Always they
were crude musical instruments, fifes, drums or fiddles from which he
was able to blow, beat or scrape a bit of a tune.

At fifteen, Patrick having finished the village school, went to work
in a mercantile house in the nearby town of Athlone. Several regiments
of the British army were stationed in the town, and Patrick could not
keep away from their bands. One of the bandmasters, a Mr. Keating,
noticed the boy and taught him to play the cornet.

Before long Patrick’s employer discovered that his young clerk was
giving more time to music than business. He kindly suggested that the
boy teach his own sons what he knew about music. But Pat did not care
to teach, he preferred playing. He learned so rapidly that soon Keating
gave him a place in a regimental band. Later, when the regiments were
sent over to Canada, along went Patrick Gilmore.

When Pat was nineteen, he became tired of the military service. He
obtained his release from the British army, and drifted down to Boston
which was then the musical center of the United States. Young Gilmore
at once found a job in Ordway’s Music Store. This concern which had
a band and a minstrel show held his interest for a short time. But
Patrick, true to his first love, soon got a place in a band and became
known as a skillful cornetist.

It was but a short time until Patrick Gilmore was the leader of the
Charleston Band. His second venture in leadership was as the successor
of Ned Kendall, the well-known bandmaster of the Suffolk Band.
Gilmore’s experience in the army had taught him the value of discipline
and practice and with his genial, friendly disposition, he had no
trouble in training his bandsmen. His reputation grew as he took over
the leadership of the Boston Brigade Band.

About this time a noted French bandleader, Louis Antoine Jullien,
arrived in Boston. He had a fine orchestra and used many spectacular
effects in his programs. One number which must have made a deep
impression on Pat Gilmore was called _The Firemen’s Quadrille_. In
this, fireworks were displayed and a company of firemen appeared
drenching the aisles with water from the hose.

Gilmore gave up the Boston Brigade to accept an offer from the Salem
Band at “$1,000 a year and all he could make.” After two successful
years he returned to Boston where he organized his first band.
Gilmore was then twenty-nine years old. Handsome, high-spirited and
even-tempered, he made many friends. He was popular in various circles,
especially among newspaper publishers, merchants and politicians. Pat
never believed in hiding his accomplishments; he used every possible
means of advertising himself and his band. He took his organization to
the Charleston Convention, in 1860, and to the Lincoln Convention in
Chicago’s Wigwam.

When the Civil War came on, Gilmore and his band enlisted in a body
in the 24th Massachusetts Volunteers. Governor Andrews named Gilmore
Bandmaster-General and Chief Musician of the State of Massachusetts.
The regiment was sent to North Carolina, and later to New Orleans where
Gilmore was put in charge of all the military bands in the Department
of the Gulf.

In 1864, at a huge celebration in honor of the inauguration of the
Honorable Michael Hahn as Governor of the Union State of Louisiana,
Gilmore staged a spectacular concert. He assembled a chorus of 5,000
school children, a band of 500 pieces, a huge fife and drum corps, with
cannon and bells coming in to accent the climaxes. _Hail Columbia_,
_Star-Spangled Banner_, _America_ and other patriotic choruses were
sung. Bandmaster Gilmore scored a great success. He returned home
filled with ambition and eager for new worlds to conquer.

Back in Boston he organized a new band, and made a tour of the country,
reaping more honors for himself and his new organization. Then Patrick
Sarsfield Gilmore conceived the great idea which carried him to the
peak of his career. In June, 1867, he told his wife after asking her
to keep the matter secret, “I’m going to get up the greatest musical
festival and the grandest celebration in the world. It is to be a
National Jubilee to celebrate the Coming of Peace throughout the land.
It will be held in a great coliseum that will be built to hold 50,000
people.... The excitement over all the country will be tremendous and
everybody will rejoice at the idea.”

Gilmore went to work at once on his great project. Boston people
thought he was crazy. Neither New York nor Washington would have
anything to do with such a wild scheme. Failing to get any city to
undertake the plan, he determined to do it himself. With his winning
Irish ways Gilmore talked to millionaire bankers, conservative music
leaders, doctors, lawyers and merchants, everyone of influence whose
interest he desired. And he won their cooperation in almost every
case. Julius Eichberg, the director of the staid Boston Conservatory
of Music, agreed to conduct the chorus of 20,000 school children. Carl
Zerrahn, Boston’s top orchestra leader, promised to direct the mammoth
orchestra in several great works. Singing societies from far and near
accepted invitations to join the grand chorus of 10,000 voices. They
wrote for programs and soon the choral numbers were being practiced in
countless towns and cities, all getting ready for the great event.

Gilmore, producer or projector, as many spoke of him, personally
carried out his gigantic plans, and neither his powerful energy nor his
smiling good humor ever failed him. He wrote hundreds of letters and
signed each one. “Praying that the grace of God be with the undertaking
and direct it to a successful end.” Although there were great numbers
of objectors and opponents to the stupendous scheme, Gilmore,
undaunted, worked cheerfully on. Many hundreds of people gave money and
help to the happy, confident originator of the plan.

The date was set, June 15, 16, 17, 1869. The immense auditorium, 500
feet long, 300 feet wide and 100 feet high, was erected in St. James
Park,--now the site of the Copley-Plaza Hotel. Thousands objected to
the huge coliseum, saying that it would be unsafe for a great crowd.
Parents protested against the 20,000 children’s chorus singing in the
new untried structure. The school board reported this to Gilmore who
cleverly suggested that the children sing on the _final_ instead of the
_first_ day, after the building had been tested by the crowds at the
earlier programs. The school board consented to this.

The coming great Peace Jubilee was the talk of the whole country.
Crowds were coming from great distances as well as nearby. Gilmore
had won the consent of the railroad companies to sell half-fare train
tickets to all visitors. The newspapers advertised low-priced rooms
and lodgings. All Boston was hysterically excited over the gigantic
celebration. When the huge bass drum arrived on a flat car--it was the
largest drum ever made in America up to that time--the crowd of curious
people completely jammed the railroad station so that no one could get
in or out.

In order to keep the thousands of musicians together in the
performance, Gilmore had speaking tubes attached to his music stand
through which he gave orders to his various assistant leaders
throughout the band and chorus. Beside these tubes were telegraph keys
to control the electrified cannon out in the park.

Finally all the arrangements were completed. Gilmore, returning home
at midnight June 14, told his wife, “When I even think of tomorrow I
can find no words to express my feelings.” Mrs. Gilmore gave him this
cheery reply. “... Only two things will afterwards be spoken of as
wonderful and miraculous--one is the Creation, the other, your Peace
Jubilee.”

At three o’clock on the afternoon of June 15, the doors of the great
auditorium were closed. The vast audience, thousands upon thousands,
filled the great building from the floor to the roof. The singers, ten
thousand of them, were seated on the stage. The one thousand men in the
orchestra sat in their places with every instrument tuned in readiness.

The aged Edward Everett Hale offered the opening prayer. After the
mayor’s too lengthy address which very few could hear, the concert
master, Carl Rosa came on the stage to join the orchestra. Following
him, amid great applause came the world’s most noted violinist, Ole
Bull, to be the first violin in the orchestra.

Gilmore entered last, wildly cheered. He mounted the high stand.
Bowing to the audience his voice trembled with emotion as he uttered
a few words of welcome, ending with, “To One alone, the Omnipotent
God, all honor, all glory and all praise are due.” He was a striking
figure, tall and slender. His face, framed in his black sideburns and
distinctive goatee, was pale from excitement. Large, star-shaped, gold
studs glittered in the snowy shirtfront of his immaculate costume.
Every eye was fixed upon the graceful erect leader. With his hands held
straight before him his baton in his right, suddenly the baton was
lifted high, then in a forceful swoop, signalled the opening down beat.
Band, organ, chorus, all burst forth together in an ecstasy of harmony
in the grand old hymn, _A Mighty Fortress Is Our God_.

The entire audience went wild and their applause lasted for an
unbelievable time. Gilmore, trembling and shaken, although filled with
triumph, bowed and hurried from the stage.

The program proceeded in its regular order. Julius Eichberg took his
place on the stand to conduct Wagner’s _Tannhäuser_ by the band.

The most spectacular number, _The Anvil Chorus_ from Verdi’s _Il
Trovatore_, had to be repeated at every day’s program by the request of
the audience. No one present could ever forget the parade of the Boston
Firemen down the aisle to the stage.

When the time came for _The Anvil Chorus_ which Gilmore always
directed, he whistled through the tubes, snapped down his upraised
hands, and every instrument instantly woke into sound. The clanging
anvils shot flaming sparks as the firemen struck their rhythmic blows.
At the grand climax the telegraph keys let loose the ear-shattering
blasts of the cannon in a magnificent fortissimo. (Gilmore was the
first bandleader to fire a cannon by electricity.)

The vast audience was completely carried away by the marvelous voice
of the singer, Parepa-Rosa. She created a tremendous sensation by her
singing of the _Star-Spangled Banner_. Dressed in glistening white
silk with large buttons of red, white and blue, and diamonds sparkling
in her dark hair, she was magnificent. The newspapers gave her great
praise. “... Her voice ringing like a trumpet-call above the noise of a
thousand instruments, ten thousand voices, the roaring organ, the big
drum and the artillery.”

The whole program was a superb success, but the great soprano,
Parepa-Rosa, the spectacular arrangement of _The Anvil Chorus_, and
Patrick Gilmore himself, were the outstanding features of the festival.

To everyone’s surprise this huge music festival made a profit, a
comparatively small sum, but when added to the proceeds of a benefit
concert given for Gilmore, almost $40,000 was presented to him. That he
had fairly earned this reward everybody agreed. He immediately went to
Europe for a rest, he said, but later it was learned that he had spent
much time making contacts with great bands for a bigger and a better
Jubilee.

Gilmore who was now acknowledged the country’s greatest bandleader,
returned from Europe all agog over another great musical Festival. The
siege of Paris and the Franco-Prussian War had ended, so he decided to
produce an International Peace Jubilee in Boston. He planned to double
the chorus--20,000 instead of 10,000 singers, a band of 2,000 instead
of 1,000; and a festival lasting three weeks instead of three days.

His preparations were soon under way. Another enormous auditorium--the
first one had burned--and a larger organ were constructed. A bigger
drum than at the previous festival was built in Portland, Maine. The
heads were 12 feet across and the sides 4 feet high. It was so big that
a wall had to be knocked out of the house where it was made in order
to get it outside. It was shipped to Boston on an ocean steamer, but
only a giant could have struck both sides at once and its thunderous
sound was so slow in coming after the beat that it was useless. The
World’s Peace Jubilee and International Music Festival was announced
for June 17 to July 4, 1872. A whole regiment of soloists was engaged,
and Johann Strauss came from Germany to personally conduct the huge
orchestra in playing his beautiful _Blue Danube Waltz_. As the high
point in the international Music Festival, Gilmore brought the greatest
of Europe’s noted bands. The Grenadier Guards from London, from Paris
the Garde Republicaine, The Kaiser Franz Grenadier Regiment Band from
Berlin and also from that city, The German Emperor’s Imperial Household
Cornet Quartette. The Irish National Band came from Dublin and the
United States Marine Band from Washington, D. C.

However, in spite of the world’s most glamorous talent, the second
great festival was a flat failure. The crowds would not come. One day
there were 22,000 performers on the stage and only 7,000 people in
the audience. Although _The Anvil Chorus_ was again on the program
and also the _Soldiers’ Chorus_ given with red fire and many other
embellishments, yet the people stayed away. No one blamed Gilmore, _the
unsurpassable_, as he was called. He had done his part and produced
every attraction which he had advertised.

Gilmore left Boston almost immediately for New York City. He was then
forty-four years old, still fired with ambition and a desire to produce
huge, perfect, spectacular performances. His band of one hundred
players, always the most talented to be found, was in great demand.

In that year, 1873, Gilmore gave his last “big show,” this year in
Chicago. It was a series of grand concerts celebrating the restoration
of the city after the great fire. The programs were held in the huge
concourse of the new passenger station of the Lake Shore Railroad, a
room two blocks long, holding 40,000 people--_and Gilmore filled it_.
He added two-hundred musicians to his band, had a chorus of 1,000
singers and to the delight of the audience he again played _The Anvil
Chorus_ with firemen, anvils, cannon and bells.

The Gilmore Band in 1875 played at Gilmore’s Gardens in New York
City making the unusual record of one-hundred-fifty consecutive
concerts to crowded houses. A highlight on the last concert of the
season was a cornet quartette by the four greatest cornetists of that
time--Arbuckle, Bent, Levy and Gilmore. In 1876 Gilmore and his band
starred at the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia.

For thirteen successive summer seasons the Gilmore Band played at
New York’s popular Manhattan Beach resort. Gilmore and his noted
organization toured the entire United States repeatedly. He was a
marvelous organizer, a superfine showman and a good financier and
business manager.

As a composer he did not rate high. He is generally given credit for
having written the well-known song _When Johnny Comes Marching Home_,
although many believed that he was not the author of the composition.
That Gilmore was versatile and resourceful everyone admits. In 1890
when his band was asked to play at General Sherman’s funeral, Gilmore
revised _Marching Through Georgia_, a rather inside-out-version,
making an unusual, unknown funeral dirge, yet which many people felt
was vaguely familiar.

While playing at the St. Louis Exposition, September 24, 1892, Gilmore
died suddenly. His wife and only daughter were with him at the time.
John Philip Sousa, Gilmore’s good friend, two days later at the opening
concert of his great band at Plainfield, New Jersey, played _The Voice
of a Departed Soul_, one of Gilmore’s own compositions. This seemed to
be an appropriate musical finale to the life of a man who had gloried
in producing dramatic and spectacular effects.


ARTHUR PRYOR

The clear, mellow tones of a trombone, playing _Rocked in the Cradle
of the Deep_, stilled the noisy crowd until a whisper could be heard.
Until that moment no one had paid any attention to the Pryor Band which
was serenading General “Black Jack” Logan at the encampment of the
Grand Army of the Republic at Denver, Colorado, in 1883.

At the close of the solo General Logan hurried out of the meeting to
speak to the bandleader, D. S. Pryor. “Who played that trombone? I want
to talk to him.”

Removing his bearskin cap, Maestro Pryor proudly said that it was his
son Arthur.

“It is God’s gift, and your son has a great future,” said
General Logan. Laying his hand on the bushy locks of the bashful
twelve-year-old Arthur, the General advised him, “Make the best use of
the divine gift you have, boy.”

This incident made such an impression on Arthur’s father that he
decided to give his son a more thorough musical training. He secured a
Professor Plato, a renowned harmonist and theorist, to teach him.

Arthur Pryor, born September 22, 1870, in St. Joseph, Missouri, was
destined to become a musical prodigy. It was in his blood. Back through
the generations in his family ran the musical strain, an unfaltering
line. His father, Daniel Pryor, was leader of Pryor’s band and “played
all instruments.” His mother was a gifted pianist.

At the age of three Arthur beat the drums with such rhythm and skill
that the neighbors in admiration forgot to complain about the noise.
At six he was playing the piano. Later he did remarkably well on the
cornet, alto horn and bass viol.

When Arthur was eleven he played the valve trombone and made his first
appearance in Chicago, Illinois, where he was called “the boy wonder.”
Soon the lad and his trombone were in great demand in his part of the
country, with or without his father’s band.

Arthur reached another milestone at seventeen when his father gave him
a slide trombone which he had accepted in payment of a debt. He devoted
endless hours to its study under his father’s teaching, and progressed
fast.

In later years, Arthur often laughed about his father, a strict
teacher, rapping him on the head with a violin bow when he was slow in
these lessons. That punishment was stopped after Mr. Pryor had done
great damage to a 100 dollar bow.

But the boy did so well that he had a succession of acclaimed
appearances at county fairs and other public gatherings in his part
of the country. He soon attracted the attention of Liberati, noted
cornet soloist of the time, who hired him for his band at Kansas City,
Missouri. Arthur was with Liberati from 1888 till 1890.

The twenty-year-old trombonist was engaged for Patrick Gilmore’s band,
but instead he accepted the conductorship of the Stanley Opera Company,
going to Denver, Colorado.

Then he received his big chance. The great Sousa had heard stories
about “a trombone wizard” from the Middle West and sent for him to join
him at once. Arthur headed East with a trombone, a ticket to New York,
thirty-five cents in cash and a determination to become a “great” in
the musical world.

The first night in New York he slept on a bench in Union Square. But
the next day at Sousa’s rehearsal the tall, red-haired young man,
wearing clothes that badly needed pressing, astounded the veteran
bandsmen by his unusual mastery of the trombone.

Pryor became Sousa’s first trombone player in 1892, and the next year
played first solo with him at the Chicago Exposition. From premiere
soloist he went on to be Sousa’s assistant conductor also. A warm
friendship developed between the two musicians, and they traveled
together on three world tours in sixteen countries.

An episode that shows Pryor’s trombone magic happened at a concert at
the Enclosed Garden in Berlin. Trombonists of six German regiments
were there especially to hear him. Pryor played a selection in
which he produced his own bass accompaniment, jumping three or four
octaves between notes. The vast audience rose en masse and gave him
an unprecedented ovation. After the concert the German trombonists
approached a German-speaking member of the band and asked permission to
examine the master’s instrument. They spent several minutes looking it
over, taking it completely apart in the process. Finally they went away
grumbling, “It’s impossible. Just another Yankee trick!”

During these years Pryor was christened “the trombone king” and
in Germany he was called “the Paganini of the slide trombone.” He
estimated that he had played 10,000 solos while he was with Sousa.

Pryor’s association with Sousa ended in 1902. Samuel D. Pryor had
recently died, and Arthur took over the band which his father had
started one year before Arthur’s birth. With the reorganized band, now
made up of some of America’s most talented musicians, Arthur Pryor
appeared at the Majestic Theater in New York on November 15, 1903, for
his band’s premiere concert.

For the next thirty years Pryor’s band was an internationally known
American institution. Critics were lavish in their praise of this
group’s simple but original and telling melody. The Pryor organization
played at Asbury Park, New Jersey, for nineteen successive summers.
From 1904 to 1909 it made six coast-to-coast tours; and for ten
straight winters up to 1926, it played at the Royal Palm Park in Miami,
Florida. It appeared for ten spring seasons at Willow Grove Park,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and at expositions, state fairs and many
public conventions.

Besides, Pryor led his band in various theater and radio engagements,
the latter sponsored by General Motors, General Electric, Goodyear Tire
and other companies. One popular broadcast, known as the _Schradertown
Band_ carried two comics, Gus and Louis, so-called proprietors of the
Schradertown Garage.

Pryor was very active in making recordings, notably for the Victor
Company. For thirty-one years he was organizer and director of various
bands and orchestras making Victor records.

Arthur Pryor was the author of more than 300 compositions, including
three light operas, _Jingaboo_, _On the Eve of Her Wedding Day_, and
_Uncle Tom’s Cabin_. Originality, beauty of melody and exceptionally
fine and effective arrangements characterize his compositions, many of
which were sung, whistled and played over the whole country. _On Jersey
Shore_ was a great favorite, particularly with his New Jersey audiences
who rose to a man when it was played. _Razzazza Mazzazza_, _Irish
King_, _Goody Two Shoes_, and _Southern Hospitality_ were always
encore winners. But _The Whistler and His Dog_, a novelty two-step
became a craze everywhere. Audiences demanded it, and whistled it and
kept time with their feet to the lively, catchy tune.

Although Pryor remained identified with his band until his death, he
virtually retired in 1938. He was always proud of his birthplace,
St. “Joe,” Missouri, but New Jersey had been “home” for a long time.
Here he lived with his wife, the former Maude Russell, whom he had
married in 1895. Their two sons, Arthur, Jr., a bandsman and New York
advertising executive, and Roger, orchestra leader and movie actor
carry on the inherited musical strain.

Typical of the popularity of the genial, kindly Arthur Pryor was his
election in 1933 as freeholder of Monmouth County with 5,000 votes over
a veteran politician.

Arthur Pryor, noted bandmaster, composer, and greatest trombone player
the world ever had, died June 18, 1942, at his home, in West Long
Branch, New Jersey. But his music, which for more than fifty years had
set the feet of millions of people throughout the world to marching,
lives on.


PATRICK CONWAY

“Don’t worry, Mother,” said fifteen-year old Patrick Conway. “I’ll go
to work at the carriage factory and make some money for you.”

Patrick’s father, Martin Conway, had just died, leaving five children
and no money. There had never been much money in the Conway home and
Patrick had never known his father to be well. Martin Conway while
living in Ireland, had served in the British army and had been wounded
at Sebastopol during the Crimean War. In 1863 he had brought his wife
and baby girl to America, the land of his dreams. He proved his loyalty
to his new country by joining the Navy and fighting in the Civil War.
Tuberculosis developed and finally caused his death.

Patrick was born July 4, 1865 in Troy, New York. His life, even as a
child, was not a carefree one in this home where there was both poverty
and illness.

At the time of his father’s death Patrick was an honor student at Homer
Academy in Homer, New York, where the family had moved. He willingly
gave up his school work for a while in order to help the family. Three
of the children were ill with tuberculosis and died within a few years
after their father’s death.

Little did Patrick know that he would find his job at the carriage
factory a dual one. When Charlie Bates, one of the workers who led the
Homer Band learned of Patsy’s interest in the cornet, he said, “So you
would like to play the cornet? If you will come to my house after work
I’ll give you lessons.... Maybe you can be in the band some day.”

So Patrick worked all day learning the trade of carriage trimming, and
walked six miles every evening to take his lessons. But that never
seemed to tire him.

Later he joined the band and returned to school for part time work.
After he was graduated from Homer Academy at the age of eighteen, he
began playing with “Happy Bill Daniel’s Country Band Orchestra” where
he gained valuable experience. This proved to be the beginning of his
career as a bandsman.

But he needed money to help the family and to continue his studies in
music. As soon as he had accumulated enough cash he bought a small
cigar factory, which was soon a thriving little business. He left the
making of fine cigars and the management of the factory to his brother
Martin, so that he could devote his time to his music and study. He
enrolled at Ithaca Conservatory of Music and at Cornell University.

“Patsy” continued his band work along with his college work. While he
was playing for dances at the old Glen Haven Hotel, he met pretty Alice
Randall. He decided at once, “That is the girl I am going to marry.”

After their marriage they lived in Courtland, New York, where their son
Paul was born. Then they moved to Ithaca in 1895 when Patrick accepted
an offer to teach music at Cornell University. He organized the Cornell
Cadet Band and directed it for thirteen years.

Meantime about 1900, the city of Ithaca asked Patrick to start a city
band. With the financial backing of Ebenezer Treman, one of the civic
minded, wealthy merchants of the town, Patrick was able to bring some
of the finest musicians in the world to Ithaca. Some of these musicians
took their families and lived there, playing in the old Lyceum Theater
Orchestra during the winter season when the band was not on tour.

This band played in practically every music and amusement center in the
country. They went on many tours such as: the Buffalo Exposition; the
St. Louis World’s Fair; the Cincinnati Zoo; Riverview park, Chicago;
the Corn palace at Mitchell, South Dakota; and state fairs in the
western states.

About 1904 Patrick’s engagements at Willow Grove Park, a popular resort
near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and at Young’s Pier at Atlantic City,
New Jersey began. These continued for many years.

In 1908 Patrick took over the Ithaca Band and gave it the name,
“Patrick Conway and his Band.” People who had never heard of Ithaca
began to hear about the band which took prizes at concerts given in
various cities of the East. An old Ithacan used to reminisce, “Some
bands wouldn’t even enter if they knew ‘Patsy’ and his bunch of terrors
had.”

The next move was to Syracuse, New York. By that time Conway was making
transcontinental tours with fifty or sixty men in the band as well as a
dozen fine soloists.

In 1915 he played a long engagement at the Panama Pacific Exposition
in San Francisco. His friend Sousa was there at the same time, and on
one occasion they each conducted part of a great concert in which both
bands were massed.

In Syracuse during the winter months Conway organized and conducted the
Syracuse Symphony Orchestra as well as a theater orchestra. He also did
some composing but published only one march. His band made a number of
records for Victor.

During World War I Patrick Conway was commissioned as Captain in the U.
S. Army Air Force and sent to Waco, Texas to establish the first Air
Force Band. At the same time Sousa was starting the Navy Band at Great
Lakes Training Station.

Sorrow came into Patrick and Alice Conway’s lives when their son Paul
died at the age of twenty-six. Paul, a pianist of great promise, had
also played an instrument in his father’s band until his health failed
following an accident when he was eighteen.

The family moved back to Ithaca in 1922. Patrick was made dean of the
Conway Band School which was affiliated with the Ithaca Conservatory
of Music. During the school year he trained a remarkably fine student
band. He took a number of these boys with the big band on the summer
tours. How the boys worked for that privilege!

During the winter he went into New York to hear good music and to
broadcast on the General Motors Family Hour with Mary Garden, Nora
Bayes, and other celebrities. He organized and rehearsed amateur
symphony orchestras made up of business and professional men and women
in several small cities of New York.

Bandmaster Patrick Conway, like his Irish friends, Patrick Gilmore
and Victor Herbert, had two gifts often said to be peculiar to their
nationality--the gift of music and the gift of making friends. But
Patrick Conway had still another rare gift--that of inspiring his
students with his own ideals. Countless young men turned to musical
careers after finding a master teacher and a loyal friend in “Patsy” as
they affectionately called him.

Conway was a striking figure as he directed his boys in almost
faultless renditions of Beethoven, Tchaikovsky, Greig, Debussy and
other great composers. The simplicity that characterized him was
evident in his manner of conducting. He believed, “The conductor’s
motions are intended as signs and suggestions to his musicians--nothing
more. He doesn’t need to do a thing to entertain his audience. His
band is there for that purpose, and the more he devotes himself to
directing, the better the band will succeed in its purpose.”

A Conway band was equally at home with military selections and popular
music. No leader of that day knew better how to make programs that the
public wanted and yet make them like only the best.

If Conway had any leisure time, he knew what to do with it. Reading or
hiking with one of his dogs as a companion were popular pastimes. He
collected authentic stories about early days in the West.

His favorite sports were boxing and baseball. Each year at the opening
game at the New York Polo Grounds he took a small band to play for his
old friend, John J. (Muggsie) McGraw.

Patrick Conway died at Ithaca, June 10, 1929, at the height of his
usefulness. At the time of his death the _Ithaca Journal News_ paid the
following tribute: “It is no small thing to have gladdened the hearts
of the people, to have lifted them repeatedly above the mundane and
trivial, to have made them forget the heat of the working day in the
exaltation of good music. This was Patrick Conway’s contribution to his
time, and for it he has earned the heartfelt gratitude of more than
one generation. His own tradition of uncompromising musicianship, his
belief in offering the best to popular audiences will be carried on by
those who have learned from him.”


EDWIN FRANKO GOLDMAN

“What do you want to play young fellow?” asked the instructor of the
grade school band, turning to the applicant next in line.

“The cornet, sir,” replied the boy.

“You’re pretty young, aren’t you?” said the teacher, looking closely at
the small, bright-eyed lad.

“I’ll soon be nine, sir,” the youngster replied, eagerly, though he was
really stretching a point.

“Well, we’ll try you on an alto horn in the second alto section. What’s
your name?”

“Edwin Goldman, sir.”

Just two weeks later Edwin was asked to remain after band practice.
“What’s the matter boy?” asked the bandleader, “You don’t seem to be
able to play.”

“It’s hard to read that second part, sir,” said Edwin. “I’d rather
learn to play the cornet.”

“You’d better wait a year or two. I told you before that you are too
young. That’s all. Turn in your instrument.”

Eddie rushed out of the room fearing his tears would be discovered,
while the young teacher hurriedly wrote “No talent” after the name of
Edwin Goldman.

However the boy’s keen disappointment was so evident that two weeks
later the teacher said, “Well, Edwin, I’ll give you another try--on the
cornet this time--we’ll see what you can do.”

Edwin quickly showed what he could do. He made such amazing progress
that it was evident he had his full share of his family’s talent.

Edwin Franko Goldman was born in Louisville, Kentucky, January 1, 1878.
He had a rare heritage in a fine musical and cultural background.

Edwin’s mother, Selma Franko, came of a line of famous musicians. She
was the oldest of sixteen children, and so many in that large family
were musical that eight grand pianos were kept in their home to allow
all who wished to practice. Selma, a talented violinist and pianist,
was one of the five Franko children who toured the United States and
Europe as young musical prodigies.

David Goldman, the father of Edwin, was also a brilliant pianist
and violinist, but as an amateur only. He devoted his life to the
profession of law. He was highly educated, widely traveled and very
prominent in his field. Having descended from such a family, it is
small wonder that from his earliest boyhood young Edwin dreamed that
some day he would become a great musician.

The Goldman family moved to Evansville, Indiana, later to Terre Haute.
When Edwin was eight years old they left the middle west to live in New
York City.

Through his admittance to the public school band Edwin had obtained
possession of a cornet. His faithful practicing nearly drove the
neighborhood to distraction. Even his devoted family protested at
the labored trills, runs and scales. But deaf to all criticism, the
boy persisted. Before very long Edwin was asked to play at all the
neighborhood parties, and his music was the pride of his school. He
was voted the most popular boy in his class and received a prize for
excellent playing when he was graduated.

At fourteen, Edwin Franko Goldman won a scholarship at the National
Conservatory of Music where he studied composition under the great
Antonin Dvorak. Next year, Jules Levy then the world’s greatest
cornetist, hearing Edwin play, gave him an approving pat on the back
as he said, “Someday you will be a great cornetist--you put your whole
soul into the tones.” Levy, realizing the boy’s talent was happy to
take him as a free pupil.

Two years later--at seventeen--Dr. Walter Damrosch chose Edwin Franko
Goldman to be the solo cornet player in the Metropolitan Opera House
Orchestra. “The Baby of the Met,” the players called him; he was so
small and so young. In fact, he was the youngest musician ever to hold
such an important place in that great organization. There Goldman had
the privilege of playing under the direction of Mahler, Hertz and for a
while, under Toscanini.

For ten full years Edwin Goldman held this position. In the meantime
he organized and directed small orchestras which were then in popular
demand. Later on he began to play in various bands during his vacations
at the Metropolitan. In 1912 he announced that he was going to give up
his work in the Metropolitan Opera House organization. His family and
friends disapproved and objected.

“What do you intend to do?” they asked. Goldman would not give them a
direct answer. He had an idea, but he was not ready to disclose it. He
began to teach the cornet and the trumpet. He attracted pupils from
all parts of the United States and even from some countries in Europe.
Goldman’s warm, magnetic personality combined with his outstanding
musical ability made him a marvelous teacher.

While continuing his teaching this energetic young man conducted many
series of band concerts in the New York area. He liked this work, but
he was surprised and disgusted at the lack of systematic and adequate
training among bands. They played in a haphazard way, trying solely for
volume and noise. Goldman had always felt that this great difference
between band and orchestra playing should not exist. He determined to
form a band and train it in accordance with his own ideals. This had
been his real reason for leaving the Metropolitan Opera House Orchestra.

For a long time Edwin Goldman had envisioned a band with great wind
instruments of much power, yet rivalling an orchestra in delicacy of
tone and style. Now he hoped to form an organization of fine musicians
and direct them in the production of great works played in this
symphonic manner.

Few people sympathized with Goldman’s ideas. Most of those to whom he
confided his plans assured him that he could never succeed. But Edwin
Goldman had great faith and unlimited persistence. His first object
was to collect the best available players of wind and percussion
instruments, and with them raise the standards of bands and band music.

Having assembled his quota of chosen men, Goldman, as manager and
conductor, founded the New York Military Band. (A few years later this
name was changed to _The Goldman Band_.) With this group he put into
use the methods, and ways of directing which he had learned from the
great conductors under whom he had played at the Metropolitan Opera
House. Goldman directed each player as if he were giving him private
lessons. He marked instructions in red ink on their music scores, even
telling them when to breathe. At first, the men objected to his strict
supervision. “He treats us like kindergartners!” they said. Goldman
held long, careful rehearsals which many of the players resented at the
time, but later they found that a man trained by this expert teacher
could become a welcome member of any first-class symphony orchestra.

By his own efforts Goldman collected a fund of $50,000, and in 1918 on
_The Green_ of Columbia University, _The Goldman Band_ opened its first
season of free summer concerts. This new Symphonic Brass Band was a
distinct success. The newspapers praised it highly and people by the
thousands flocked to the concerts. A few years later Columbia needed
_The Green_ for new buildings, and the band concerts were given on the
Mall in Central Park three nights each week. On two nights weekly,
concerts were played in Prospect Park in Brooklyn.

In 1924 Daniel Guggenheim took over the costs of the concerts, making
them a gift to the city of New York. The necessary money is now donated
by the Daniel and Florence Guggenheim Foundation. The Goldman Band has
given many programs in other parks, other cities and even in Canada.

An interesting new feature was initiated on the Goldman Concert program
on the Mall in 1925--an Annual Music Memory Contest. For twelve
consecutive years Aaron Gold, a middle-aged, leather craftsman, from
the Bronx, won the first prize in this event. This music lover claimed
to have gained all his musical knowledge through his attendance at the
Goldman Band Concerts.

The Goldman Band, one of the first great organizations to play over
the radio, was chosen to play on NBC’s opening program, November 15,
1926. This band is said to have had a greater listening audience than
any other musical group.

In 1930 Dr. Goldman founded the American Bandmasters’ Association
made up of all the prominent Band Conductors of the United States and
Canada. The members elected Goldman their first president and some
years later he was made honorary life president. This influential
group has become a power in upholding the ideals of band music so long
desired by Dr. Goldman.

At first bandleaders were obliged to use orchestral scores of the
great masters’ compositions, rearranged for band instruments. Only
expert musicians could make such arrangements successfully and it was
an expensive procedure. Early in his career as bandleader Goldman had
written to every living composer of note asking them to compose music
for the band. “At first they all thought it was a joke,” said Dr.
Goldman with a chuckle, “but now, more band music is written than can
be used. A number of famous men, such as Grainger, Holst, Copland,
Shostakovitch, Milhand, Gould and others, have been contributors to the
repertoire of band music.”

On Dr. Goldman’s seventieth birthday, January 1, 1949, an unsurpassable
tribute was paid to this man who had worked for years to have
music--good music--composed especially for bands. The august League of
Composers presented in his honor a program of their music for symphonic
bands which was played by Goldman’s Concert Band in Carnegie Hall, New
York City.

The Band was jointly led by Walter Hendl, the assistant director of
the New York Philharmonic Association Society, and Percy Grainger,
composer-conductor. This was the first time a program of art music
written by noted living composers especially for the band, had been
offered to the public.

Edwin Franko Goldman and Adelaide Marbrunn were married in 1908.
Throughout the years they have shared a great love for music. Two
children were born to them, Richard Franko and Louise Elizabeth.
Richard Franko Goldman a thorough musician, a pianist, composer,
arranger and musicologist, is the assistant conductor of the Goldman
Band. Louise Goldman married and has a young son who seems to have
inherited the Goldman musical talent, and incidentally, he is the apple
of his grandfather Goldman’s eye.

A short time ago this eight-year-old Michael who began studying music
at the age of six, brought a brief music manuscript to his grandfather.
It was entitled “A Song to Music” and it was “Dedicated” to Gramp.
Neatly written in the key of four sharps, the final measure began with
a half-rest and ended with two full-toned chords high on the staff in
the right hand part.

“Gramp, do you know why I put the half-rests in the last measure?”
asked the budding composer.

“No, why did you?” queried Dr. Goldman.

“Why you see I had to have time to get my hands up there on the
keyboard,” replied the lad proudly. So watch for his name among future
composers, “Walter Michael Freed.”

The dynamic, but genial and kindly Dr. Goldman likes people and people
like him. He has many friends among the musical “greats” of today and
yesterday. And he knew intimately the noted bandleaders of the past
generation.

He admired the inimitable Patrick Gilmore who was the real founder of
the Concert Band. He enjoyed playing cornet duets with his good friend,
Herbert L. Clarke, known as the World’s greatest cornetist.

Although Goldman was almost a quarter of a century younger than John
Philip Sousa, the two were firm friends. At a party one evening at
which Dr. Goldman entertained a number of noted musicians, Sousa
remarked to the younger man, “I have always meant to tell you that I
owe much of my success to your mother’s family. The first really fine
music I ever heard was played by the five Franko children. When I was
a school boy I attended their concert in Washington and I was thrilled
and inspired by their wonderful playing.”

“Would you like to see one of those children again, Mr. Sousa?” asked
Dr. Goldman.

“Nothing would please me more,” replied Sousa.

“Come with me then,” said Goldman. He ushered the guest into the next
room, and proudly led him to a lovely white-haired lady. “Mother,” he
said as they smiled tenderly at each other, “I wish to present my good
friend John Philip Sousa who heard the Franko children play long ago.”

“Do you remember the little girl with the long braids, Mr. Sousa?” Her
dark eyes twinkled as she pointed to a photograph of the five Franko
children on the wall nearby.

“Indeed I do,” said Sousa. Stepping close to the picture he added,
“There she is, the one on the left.”

“I am she--Selma”--said Mrs. Goldman smiling.

“At last I can thank you,” Sousa replied, “for your fine music which
gave me inspiration and strengthened my desire to be a musician.”

If Dr. Goldman were the kind of man who glories in display, the walls
of his spacious studio would be crowded with various medals, emblems
and scrolls. He has received countless gifts and honors. He is the
first musician to have been given official honors from the City of New
York, including a beautiful New York City flag, several medals and
watches, besides scrolls upon which are written official resolutions.
Boston, San Francisco, Toronto (Canada), many other large cities and
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts have bestowed similar recognition
upon this outstanding musician.

An unique honor has been given to Dr. Goldman by the Pawnee Tribe of
American Indians who made him an Indian Chieftain and gave him the name
of Chief Bugle. And not only has his native land shown its appreciation
of Goldman’s achievements, but other countries as well. France made him
Officer de l’Instruction Publique. Italy presented him with the medal
of Cavaliere of the Order of the Crown.

Czechoslovakia made him a member of the Order of the White
Lion. Various Universities have conferred upon Dr. Goldman their
honorary degree of Doctor of Music. He also belongs to many musical
organizations, fraternities and unions. And indicative of his love for
young people, Dr. Goldman never fails to name his position as Music
Counselor of the 4-H Clubs of the United States and also of the Boy
Scouts of America.

But the honor which gave Dr. Goldman the “most profound satisfaction
of all” was the presentation by Mrs. Sousa of her late husband’s
favorite baton. Mrs. Sousa said, “I feel that my husband would have
wanted this baton to go to his good friend, Edwin Franko Goldman.” Most
leading musicians agreed that the honor of being the “Dean of American
Bandmasters” rightfully went from Sousa to Goldman, “the man who had
brought the band to a high pitch of musical perfection.”

Several books, very valuable to bandsmen, have been written by Dr.
Goldman. _Band Betterment_, published in 1934 and _The Goldman Band
System_ which came out in 1936 are two of these. His first book, _The
Foundation to Cornet Playing_ has been most popular with ambitious
cornetists and it quickly sold more than one quarter of a million
copies. A new series by Dr. Goldman is being brought out.

_Facing The Music_, the famous bandmaster’s autobiography, is to appear
shortly.

More than one hundred marches have been composed by Dr. Goldman,
many of which have become so popular that he ranks next to Sousa in
that field. _On The Mall_, Goldman’s best-known march, is often
requested by the concert crowds who, without a signal from the leader,
spontaneously join in singing or whistling the trio. Brooklyn is
equally enthusiastic when he plays _Hail Brooklyn_, a march which
Goldman composed and dedicated to the people of Brooklyn.

The United States Government recognizes Dr. Goldman’s great musical
ability. Recently he was appointed on a committee of three to make a
survey of the Government Service Bands in various centers including
Japan and the Philippines, and to suggest ways of improving these bands.

Dr. Goldman generously gives much time to worthwhile musical efforts of
various groups. Regularly, once each year, he conducts the Salvation
Army Band in New York City. And also, every year, he leads the band at
the Swedish Orphans’ Home to aid their money-raising campaign.

Young, talented musicians may be sure of a sympathetic hearing from
this great-hearted man of music. He is always happy to discover and
promote new musical geniuses.

At the funeral of the well-known Negro singer and composer, Harry
Burleigh, Dr. Goldman was attracted by an unusually beautiful voice
among the singers. He at once sought her out, gave her an audition and
offered her an opportunity to sing at the Goldman Band Concerts.

Dr. Goldman is an unforgettable figure. He is a handsome man with wavy,
white hair, brilliant dark eyes and a quick friendly smile. He is not
tall, but slender, trimly built and of distinguished appearance.

This maker of “music for the masses” is one of New York City’s
best-known men. While band music is his chief interest, he indulges
in a hobby, that of collecting autographs and letters of composers,
conductors, musicians and other famous people. Besides his other
numerous activities, Dr. Goldman finds time to aid his “pet
project”--_School and College Bands_.

Since the beginning of this movement Dr. Goldman’s efforts for its
advancement have been continuous. As a judge at contests and music
festivals, adviser and consultant, he has freely given his time. “These
High School and College Bands have a wonderful future and will exert a
great influence upon our country’s music,” said this music authority.
Dr. Goldman is in great demand as a judge or speaker at all music
festivals.

He firmly believes that every child should learn to play a musical
instrument. “With that hobby,” says Dr. Goldman, “boys will not loaf or
linger on the streets, not knowing what to do with their spare time.
Now, with shorter work hours, people have more unoccupied time. Those
who become interested in music will be interested in all the better
things of life--art, literature, and sculpture. The only worthwhile
things that last are cultural things. Music will remain with them
forever.”

[Illustration]




_Municipal Bands_


Clang! Clang! went the firebell. The members of the Lone Tree Band
practicing in a room above the fire department, dropped their
instruments and scuttled pell-mell downstairs to go to the fire. They
were led by their bandmaster who was also the fire chief.

Lone Tree might have been any town in the early 1900’s when a band
was as necessary to community pride and self respect as was its fire
department. The usual practice room was back of, or above the engine
house, or it may have been in the back room of a grocery store if
the proprietor chanced to be a bandmember. Here the public-spirited
citizens tooted away through long hours preparing for the weekly or
monthly concert.

To the townspeople these blaring sounds were a promise of good times
to come; for the band concert was a big social event, not only in
the towns but also in the surrounding communities. Stores remained
open on those nights. Hitching racks were all occupied. Families and
young couples came in various kinds of conveyances from lumber wagons
to surreys with fringed tops and occasionally a Ford or perhaps a
Pierce-Arrow. The young people strolled around the commons or parks in
the moonlight; older women visited with relatives or friends; while
the men gathered in small groups to talk about politics or crops. All
discussed their favorite “pieces” from _The Poet and Peasant_ overture
to _Listen to the Mocking Bird_ with variations. The latter gave the
cornetist an opportunity to display his technique, and he seldom failed
his audience.

The municipal band became a unifying influence of the entire community,
and by 1912 nearly every town of any size in the United States had
some kind of a band. Victor and Columbia Record Companies were selling
1,000,000 march records a year. The march kings were as eagerly
followed as the popular jazz kings of today.

Maintaining a band was not easy, but subscription and taxation
plans were used in many municipalities of all sizes even in rural
communities. Major George W. Landers of Clarinda, Iowa, a prominent
bandmaster himself, fathered the Iowa Band Law, a model for similar
legislation in more than half the states of the Union. This law
permitted towns and cities of less than 40,000 to levy a local tax
“for maintenance or employment of a band for musical purposes.” Major
Landers holds a high place in band history.

Police and fire department bands, many of which are still in existence,
have rendered a real service to their communities. Service clubs such
as Kiwanis, Rotary, Exchange, and Lion, have sponsored juvenile bands
in many towns and cities. Fraternal orders, American Legion Posts,
Veterans of Foreign Wars and other organizations today support some
fine bands.

The small-town band is a distinctly American tradition, one of those we
often associate with “the good old days.” But today’s municipal bands
are directly descended from those town bands, good or bad as they may
have been. Colonel George Howard, leader of the Army Air Force Band,
says, “Town bands were organized and conducted by men who had a real
love for music, organizational ability, and community spirit. We must
never underestimate the tremendous job they did in helping to elevate
the plane of American culture.”

Although relatively few cities maintain municipal bands now, there are
still some excellent ones to be found in the smaller cities. There
seems to be a trend toward more community-supported bands again with an
increased interest in public concerts, particularly park concerts where
large numbers can meet.


THE ALLENTOWN BAND

The Allentown, Pennsylvania, Band has authentic records to prove that
it was organized in 1828 and that it played at a “celebration in honor
of General Lafayette, who had recently died, held on July 31, 1834. In
the center of the troops, leading the white horse draped in mourning,
the band marched to the rumbling of the muffled drums.”

Marching at the head of the first firemen’s parade in Allentown was one
of the various important holiday functions the band has participated
in. “The band was followed by the hose company with four horses and a
fine banner; the Friendship engine, drawn by two horses and having a
banner; the Lehigh engine, drawn by four gray horses, with a banner;
and the Humane engine, drawn by four horses with a banner. All were
decorated with laurel, evergreens and flowers.”

During World War I the band played for many civic and military affairs,
including the launching of the first wooden ship by the Trayler
Shipbuilding Company at Cornwells, on July 5, 1918.

In 1926 the present director, Albertus L. Meyers, who had many years
of professional experience with Sousa, Conway, Pryor and Liberati was
elected leader and business manager. Under his direction the Allentown
Band has grown into a concert band of seventy members which has played
in Toronto and Montreal, Canada, and in various large cities of the
East.

This is Allentown’s own municipal band. It plays a series of winter
concerts in a local theater and a summer series in West Park, as well
as many concerts in nearby communities.


THE BARRINGTON BAND

The Barrington Band in East Barrington, New Hampshire, is just
four years younger than the Allentown Band, but it has the unique
distinction of having had only three leaders, all from three
generations of the Wiggin family. In 1832 James Wiggin, grandfather of
the present leader, organized the Wiggin Band with his five sons and a
few neighbor boys as members.

George Wiggin, one of the five sons, “had the band in hand” at the age
of seventeen and carried on as bandmaster until 1880. During this time
George had five of his sons in his band.

Elmer Wiggin, the present leader, had his four brothers in his group
when he took over in 1880. “After I became leader, we played our
initial job for a Garfield and Arthur torchlight parade,” he says. “But
our uniforms weren’t as colorful and elaborate as those of my father’s
band, purchased about the Mexican War time.”

In 1890 the name was changed from the Wiggin’s Band to the Barrington
Band. Now Elmer Wiggin, loved and revered by his community, carries on
with his son and a grand-nephew representing the family in today’s band
of thirteen players.

“I am now in my eighty-ninth year,” says Bandmaster Wiggin, “but I
expect to lead my band on Memorial Day as I have for sixty-nine years.”


HERBERT CLARKE

Five-year-old Herbert Clarke stealthily crept up the attic stairs as he
had done for days when his mother was busy. He quietly opened up the
cases of wind instruments stored there. Not daring to take them out, he
sat entranced as he examined each one separately.

But his favorite play place was soon discovered. His father ordered
him to stay out of the attic and then began to teach him violin. The
boy progressed surprisingly fast, but the forbidden instruments were
constantly in his mind.

Herbert Lincoln Clarke, born September 12, 1867, in Woburn,
Massachusetts, was the fourth of five sons of William Horatio and
Eliza Tufts Richardson Clarke. His father, a celebrated organist
and composer, disapproved of band musicians although he could play
any kind of instrument made. He wanted his sons to learn and enjoy
classical music and frequently roared at them, “Music is an art, not a
profession!” But band music was Herbert’s heritage.

He watched the torchlight processions of the political parties prior
to the election of 1876, the fife and drum corps, and bands of all
kinds marching and playing with hundreds of men, all bearing torches
and wearing multi-colored capes. He would lie awake nights listening to
bands playing in the distance, then fall asleep and dream that he was
a man playing with them.

After his brother Ed bought a cornet and joined a band Herbert’s band
fever grew worse. On their first parade Herbert marched alongside Ed
and announced to all they passed, “This is my brother playing the
cornet.”

When Herbert was twelve the family moved to Toronto, Canada, having
previously lived in four different cities where Mr. Clarke had been
called to play the church organ or take charge of school music. At
first Herbert had to content himself with trailing bands and keeping
his brothers’ instruments polished and their uniforms brushed and
spotless.

After he had heard Bowen R. Church, his first cornetist hero, Herbert
again hopefully invaded the attic collection. He took out the old brass
cornopean from its box and plastered it together with beeswax. Watching
his chance to practice he found he could draw only wheezy noises from
the dilapidated old horn, but he did learn to play some of the cornet
scales. Finally one loud toot blew the old instrument apart.

Regretfully, Herbert went back to his violin and with some of his
schoolmates organized a little orchestra which did so well that they
were soon playing at church sociables. Herbert’s music attracted so
much attention that he was offered the second violinist chair with
the Toronto Philharmonic Orchestra of some fifty players. Here the
thirteen-year-old boy learned much good music.

One day he persuaded his mother to let him “try just once” to play his
brother’s silver cornet. She was so surprised at his performance that
she asked Ed to hear him. As a result Herbert was allowed to play in
his brother’s small orchestra at the opening of a new restaurant. The
fifty cents he received was the first money he had ever made from music.

This spurred him on to further practice and to begin saving money to
buy his own cornet. He shoveled snow furiously at twenty-five cents a
job, but at the end of a month his cornet seemed far away. His father,
usually so generous, refused to contribute a cent to this cause.

Discouraged, Herbert decided to try for a job playing with the
Government Regiment Band as he had heard that they furnished
instruments free to those who did not own them. In spite of the fact
that he was only fourteen, he was accepted and took the oath of
allegiance to Queen Victoria for service. The bandmaster gave him a
cornet, a plain brass one with badly corroded slides; but he happily
cleaned it up and polished it till it glistened like new. No one
worked harder than Herbert. With distended cheeks and bulging eyes he
practiced faithfully.

His big day soon came. At the opening of Canadian Parliament he put
on his regimental uniform to perform guard duty. In twelve below zero
weather the band marched through snowy and icy streets. At first he
could not keep step and hold his mouthpiece in place. Then the cornet
froze to his lips. It not only made no sound, but it took the skin when
he removed it. His proud schoolmates who trooped along home with him
after the parade did not know that their hero had not played a note
during the entire march.

That fall after a hard fought football game, Herbert contracted
pneumonia and was kept in bed from December till April. His brother Ed
who was now playing a violin in an orchestra felt so sorry for Herbert
that he allowed him to use his cornet. Father relented enough to say,
“Get well, son, and I’ll let you play the cornet since nothing else
will do. That is, if you behave yourself and keep your school work up
to the mark.” Herbert returned to school and was graduated with his
class in 1884.

Then his family moved again--this time to Indianapolis, Indiana.
There, fortunately, each musician had his own room. Herbert and his
cornet, Ern and his trombone, Ed and his violin, Mr. Clarke and his
organ. Besides, the boys and their father began playing together. Many
unsigned notes were left in the Clarke’s mailbox, all expressing the
same thought--that the family was the “neighborhood nuisance” and that
“they should take their instruments and move to the country.”

Herbert got a job playing at a roller skating rink for fourteen dollars
a week and proudly began to pay board at home, a dollar a week. Now he
was making enough money to buy his own cornet. Although it was not a
silver-plated one like Ed’s, it was a prized possession.

The boy’s ambition was fired again when Patrick Gilmore’s band came to
play in Indianapolis. Herbert met them at the station and, standing
first on one foot then on the other, tried to get enough courage to ask
to carry the great Gilmore’s bag to the hotel. Failing in this he sat
in a front seat at the concert where he could see every move of the
musicians as well as marvel at their technique. Then and there he vowed
that some day he would play in Gilmore’s band, the only traveling band
in the country at that time.

Still thinking of Gilmore the next morning, he was up early to practice
when a call from his father interrupted, “A letter for you, Herbert.
Come on down!” Will, the oldest son who had remained in business in
Toronto, had written glowingly of a job he had found for Herbert in
a store. Mr. Clarke was sure that this was a fine opportunity for
his young son, and he cited instances of many wealthy and respected
citizens who had started with similar jobs. With visions of wealth and
prestige, Herbert left home to try for a business career.

Upon his arrival his hopes were a bit dashed when he learned that he
would be paid only ten dollars a month. So that he would not have to
pay any lodging, his brother Will allowed him to sleep in the upstairs
room of his boathouse. The boy was always cold, but he was too proud
to ask for help from home. When summer came, he began playing with the
Regimental Band and that trebled his income.

Herbert began to doubt that his career was business as his music
interest grew. He said, “There is something that makes me restless and
only music will overcome it.” One day at the store he was discovered
working on cornet solos and drawing staves on brown wrapping paper.
For this he was reprimanded by his manager and later lectured by Will.
Before he could be fired, however, a telegram came for him.

He had received an offer to play at English’s Opera in Indianapolis
at fifteen dollars a week. This he accepted with alacrity. Back in
Indianapolis he found that his income was sufficient for him to buy
the books and music he wanted for the cornet. He studied all the music
magazines and _Orban’s Method_ faithfully, and worked hard trying to
devise a method of his own. He sat where he could watch good cornetists
at concerts then went home to practice for hours trying to imitate
them. Clarke, in writing of these years, said, “No one will ever
know the many obstacles I had to overcome in the early part of my
career.” But his love for the cornet kept him at work in spite of many
disappointments.

The next year at the age of eighteen, Herbert won the cornet
championship at the state band contest in Evansville, Indiana. Henry
Dustin, celebrated instrument maker, presented him with a gold-plated
and elaborately engraved baby cornet with an oval bell. Six and a half
inches long and five inches high, this was the smallest cornet ever
made, and it could actually be played.

Herbert went to visit his parents who now lived in Rochester, New York,
and at their urging, patiently canvassed the town for a job. But when
he received an offer from the Citizens Band in Toronto, who wanted him
as cornet soloist, the pleas of his father fell upon a mind already
made up. “My career must be music as it is so continually thrust upon
me,” he decided once and for all.

Back in Toronto he reenlisted with the Queen’s Own Regiment. Then the
ambitious young man organized and led an industrial band of thirty
employees of the Taylor Safe Works Company. For this, his first
directing work, he spent long hours before his mirror, wielding his
baton with different rhythms until he could use it easily.

His reputation as a musician spread and the Toronto Conservatory of
Music hired him as instructor in “violin, viola, cornet and all brass
instruments.” In the fall of 1890 Clarke was honorably discharged from
the Regimental Band so he could lead a forty-man band for the Heintzman
Piano Company.

Clarke also formed a little company he called “The Canadian Trio.” They
gave concerts all over Ontario, and in a short time Herbert Clarke was
known as “Canada’s Favorite Cornet Soloist.”

But he was to receive a still greater honor--a chance to try out for
a place in Gilmore’s Band. He went to New York and passed a strenuous
test of both ability and endurance.

At twenty-four he had realized his teen-age dream of being a soloist
with the great Gilmore and of traveling over the country with him. Two
Clarke brothers occupied solo chairs--Ernest, trombone and Herbert,
cornet. The band began by touring the New England States, then played
a month at Madison Square Garden in New York City. Manhattan Beach was
the next engagement, and then the St. Louis exposition. Here Patrick
Gilmore suddenly died.

Speaking of this time Clarke wrote, “Back in New York and broke, I
played at the new Manhattan Theater and any place I could get work. To
avoid paying carfare, I walked many miles to and from my jobs.”

But the next year he joined Sousa’s Band for a tour of the United
States and Europe and remained with him for several years. Clarke,
encouraged by Arthur Pryor, twenty-three-year-old trombone soloist with
the band, began writing his own solos.

Many times between tours the musicians were without work and salary.
During these years Clarke played with various groups, among them Victor
Herbert’s 22nd Regiment Band and the New York Philharmonic Orchestra.

Then he rejoined Sousa for another great tour. When they returned from
Europe, Clarke took over the American Band in Providence, Rhode Island.
At the same time he led the bands of three regiments. After a year he
resigned and filled engagements under the name of Clarke’s Providence
Band.

However, when Sousa called to ask that Clarke rejoin him for a world
tour, he was greatly tempted. He was ready to play solos again and
leave booking problems behind him. He consoled his wife and three
children by promising to take them with him on the 1905 European tour.
“My life seemed to be one of change,” wrote Clarke. “But I surely
gained experience in all kinds of music.”

From 1904 till 1917 Herbert Clarke, the self-taught cornetist, was
soloist and assistant conductor of Sousa’s great band. On the podium he
had the same appearance and directing style as Sousa. Outstanding as
an arranger of band music, Clarke was invaluable. The two men worked
together through all these years in confidential relationship.

Between tours Clarke spent more time on the farm which he had bought
near Reading, Pennsylvania, getting acquainted with his family and
teaching and practicing. He told of his small daughter forgetting him
after a long tour and running to tell her mother that a strange man was
at the door.

At the age of forty-five Clarke began to think of retiring from concert
work. He went to Elkhart, Indiana, to head the cornet and trumpet
department of C. G. Conn’s large factory with the understanding that he
be released for tours with Sousa. Clarke held this position until Mr.
Conn sold his factory in 1915.

As a young man Clarke had declared that he would leave the concert
field at the age of fifty. He insisted that he wanted to “quit in good
standing, stay in one place, sleep in the same bed every night and quit
traveling all over the world.”

In September, 1917, Clarke severed his connection with Sousa’s band and
accepted an offer to conduct the band of the Anglo-American Leather
Company in Huntsville, Canada. At the end of this five year contract,
Clarke moved to Los Angeles, California, where he planned to spend
the rest of his life. No sooner had he got well started in teaching
cornet and in launching a correspondence course than he accepted
the leadership of the Long Beach, California, Municipal Band, for a
six-month period.

Under Clarke’s baton this band of twenty-five musicians grew to
fifty-two and the six months lengthened to twenty years. Then Clarke’s
physician ordered him to retire from work.

During his many years of public service, Herbert Clarke made an
enviable record. The degree of Doctor of Music was conferred upon him
by Phillips University in 1934. He was the author of four books on the
cornet. He traveled all over the world with the greatest bands of his
day, having made thirty-four tours of the United States and four of
Europe. He played over 6,000 programmed concert solos.

Among his popular compositions are _Aloha Oe_, _Whirlwind Polka_, _Ah
Cupid_, and _Long Beach Is Calling_. He made more phonograph records
than any other cornet player, both in the United States and in Europe.
_Sounds of the Hudson_ and _Debutante_ are among those that have
inspired thousands with their flawless technique. His records were
still listed in the catalogs well into the 1920’s and many cornetists
play them today.

As a teacher Dr. Clarke had pupils from all over the world seeking his
counsel and guidance. He told them, “You can be a great cornet player
if you wish. There is no such thing as a born cornetist. Each is made
by and for himself.”

Dr. Clarke had a keen interest in school and college bands and was in
great demand as guest conductor and lecturer at national band contests
and clinics. His kindly mannerisms and warm friendliness endeared him
to young and old alike.

Bringing joy and happiness to others through his music and his
encouragement had made a full life for Herbert Clarke who died January
30, 1945, in Long Beach, California.

In 1948 a monument was unveiled and dedicated to Dr. Clarke in the
Congressional Cemetery in Washington, D. C. It was erected by the
Pennsylvania Bandmasters’ Association in collaboration with the
American Bandmasters’ Association and the Sousa Band Fraternal Society.
On this monument not far from that of his beloved friend, Sousa, are
these words: Herbert Lincoln Clarke, _World’s Premiere Cornetist and
Bandmaster_.

This memorial was erected to a man who had never had a cornet lesson in
his life, to a man who was known the world over as a great artist and a
great gentleman.


KARL KING

“Mister, can you tell me where the circus lot is?” asked the tall lanky
eighteen-year-old Karl King.

“Yep, it’s right down that road, son. But if you’re looking for the
show, it left a week ago--where it went I don’t know,” answered the old
man as he walked on down the street.

Karl, laying his baritone horn carefully on the ground, sank wearily to
the curb. Taking a crumpled letter from his pocket, he read it again.
“Yes, the Yankee Robinson Show bandmaster did say that I was to report
here in Emporia, Kansas, today for a job,” he said to himself. “And
here I am with just eighty-seven cents in my pocket, and the circus has
left town.”

Fortunately for him a circus follower, who had been left behind, came
along the street and stopped to question the dejected-looking young man:

“The Yankee Robinson Shows? Come on with me. I’m following them too.
They went off without me, but we’ll catch them.”

With his help Karl caught up with the circus a few days later and began
a career that has made history.

Karl King, a true Midwesterner, was born in Paintersville, Ohio,
February 21, 1891 to Sandusky L. and Anna King. Before he could walk,
Karl’s parents noticed his fascination for music, and when very young
he began to study music. He sold papers on the streets of Canton to
make money to buy his first horn.

Karl’s urge for writing and composing was the talk of the neighborhood.
His first march written at fourteen was sold three years later for ten
dollars. Shortly after this a road show piano player gave him a lesson
in harmony and taught him to play chords on the piano, and that was the
only technical instruction he was to have outside of his own study.
Like Herbert Clarke, Karl King is a self-educated musician.

He became baritone soloist with Thayer Military Academy Band of Canton,
Ohio, at sixteen. Other similar jobs followed with such organizations
as Weddemeyer’s Band of Columbus, Ohio, and the Soldier’s Home Band of
Danville, Illinois.

This was work he enjoyed, but it was necessary for him to help support
himself. At the age of thirteen he began setting type and doing other
odd jobs for the newspaper, the Canton, Ohio, _Repository_, even trying
his hand at reporting.

Then at eighteen came the exciting letter offering him a job with the
Yankee Robinson Circus. That changed the pattern of his life and he
began trouping.

The combined Sells-Floto and Buffalo Bill Wild West Show owner soon
heard about this young musician and hired him for their bandmaster. His
fame spread, and at the age of twenty-three he was directing the Barnum
and Bailey Circus Band, the youngest man ever to hold that position.

As the circus traveled from one place to another, Karl would find a
quiet corner where he could compose music. He knew that better music
was needed for the circus, and he wrote original and catchy marches and
waltzes which were very popular with the performers.

While the circus was at Madison Garden in New York City, Lillian
Leitzel, the great woman aerialist, asked him to write some special
music for her act as she had never liked her music. King, inspired by
her beauty and grace, wrote a special waltz for her act. The melody and
rhythm gave her wings she insisted, and for the rest of her life she
refused to have any change made in her musical accompaniment.

“In 1918,” said King, “I thought I should settle down and devote more
time to my composing.” So he left the circus life and returned to
Canton, Ohio, where he became the conductor of the famous Grand Army
Band.

Two years later Karl King went to Fort Dodge, Iowa, to lead their
municipal band, “the premier concert band of Iowa.” He established
there the Karl King Publishing Company which he still owns and manages.

In spite of his colorful career, Karl King, a handsome, six-foot-four-inch
giant with piercing dark eyes, is noted for his modesty and unassuming
manners.

But he has reason to boast about many things. He has numerous devoted
friends in the musical world who realize what he has done. He is past
president of the American Bandmasters’ Association and of the Iowa
Bandmasters’ Association. For years this militant and enthusiastic
champion of bands and band music has been a guest conductor of massed
band festivals in nearly every state in the Union.

Karl King has written more than 200 compositions, some of which most
people have heard in various places or over the radio. Among the
college marches he wrote are: _Hawkeye Glory_ for the University of
Iowa; _Mighty Minnesota_ for the University of Minnesota; _The War
March of the Tartars_ for Wayne University; and _Pride of the Illini_
for the University of Illinois; and _Michigan on Parade_ for University
of Michigan. _Ponderoso_, _Barnum and Bailey Favorite March_ and
_Moonlight on the Nile_ waltz are also favorites.

Maestro King is married and has one son, Karl Jr. Their home and
business is in Fort Dodge, Iowa, and he is proud to direct the hometown
band. Fort Dodge is proud of Karl King who, since 1920, has advertised
their town the country over with one of the few big bands that has had
a continuous existence of many years.


THE BAND OF HAGERSTOWN

The municipal band of Hagerstown, Maryland, organized in 1915 has the
city government solidly back of its well-known band and its noted
leader, Dr. Peter Buys. Their summer concerts in the city park draw
huge audiences and they are in demand for out-of-town engagements.
Dr. Buys, composer, conductor, and teacher, came to America from
Amsterdam, Holland, in 1902. For nine years he arranged music for
Sousa’s Band. Since 1920 he has been the Director of Music of
Hagerstown. He has worked continuously with the pioneers in the band
field and takes an active part in school band festivals and clinics
over the country.

Dr. Peter Buys and Karl King have done a great service to our country
by proving that a municipal band of high artistic merit can make a
continued contribution to the cultural and entertainment life of their
communities.


PHILADELPHIA’S MUMMERS’ PARADE

Everyone loves a parade, particularly if it has a band in it. For
the better part of a century municipal festival parades have been a
tradition in some of the large cities of our country from New York to
California.

But one of the most fantastic is the Mummers’ Parade in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, on New Years Day. It is said to have originated in
the early 1800’s, when it was led by Eph Horn, the famous minstrel.
However, the only records available tell of the first, an individual
organization with three musicians--two fiddlers and one artist on the
triangle. The first formal parade was held January 1, 1901, after the
Council had decided to make it a city function.

Now the colorful parade is miles long and is made up of three
units--fancy, comic and string bands. King Momus, god of ridicule, is
the leader of the parade. The Police, Firemen and PTC Bands at the
beginning of the line start the procession rolling. But the swinging
groups all march down Broad Street to the tinkling music of the string
bands.

Some years there are as many as fifty string bands, spaced a block
apart. In them from fifty to one hundred musicians play guitars,
banjos, violins, saxophones, accordions, percussion instruments, and
cymbals. Their theme song, _Oh Dem Golden Slippers_, is in keeping with
the gold painted rubbers which the gay marchers always wear.

Their fancy costumes “as splendiferous as a parade of peacocks” cost
thousands of dollars. In most clubs or units, the captain wears the
showiest costume with a flowing satin or velvet cape a block long
and requiring sixty or more page boys to support it. One headdress
contained 300 plumes while another stood ten feet high and had 700
plumes with lights blinking on and off among them.

Philadelphia and the surrounding country is proud of its parades, and
in fair weather more than a million people jam both sides of Broad
Street to see Quakertown’s traditional pilgrimage.

[Illustration]




_Industrial Bands_


“Wanted! FIRST-CLASS BANDSMAN who has $500 or more to invest in an
up-to-date job printing office; the business will invoice at $1,600.
Party must be reliable and a first-class printer. Good opportunity for
the right party.”

Advertisements like this were common in the early band days. Employers
wanted workers who could also play a band instrument or “double in
brass.” And such was the popularity of bands that often the job
appealed to the worker only because he would be able to play in
the town band. At first the bandsmen were not paid, even for their
expenses; but later some communities donated money to help them.

In time the industries began to support their bands for they had found
these organizations wonderful allies in spreading good will among their
employees, communities and customers. Some companies gave band concert
parties to their workers and their families. These were welcome events
in the days of few social entertainments.

One of the oldest industrial bands, the Altoona Works Band of the
Pennsylvania Railroad, was organized in 1853 under the leadership
of William Boyden. This group was always noted for its striking
appearance. In 1885 twenty-six uniforms were purchased at a cost
of $2,200, “the trimmings and buttons of which were gold-plated of
the best quality.” The band played at the inauguration of President
Harrison and at several of the inaugural celebrations and is still in
existence with Albert Sincer of Altoona, Pennsylvania, as leader.

Outstanding among the smaller railroad bands was the Missouri-Kansas
and Texas or “Katy” Band of Parsons, Kansas. The company employed a
full-time music supervisor and in the 1920’s boasted five bands of
white workers, one Mexican band and one Negro band. These popular
groups played over the country at such functions as state fairs and in
many places where a parade band was needed.

A great impetus had been given to the band movement when Charles G.
Conn of Elkhart, Indiana, began turning out popular-priced horns. And
incidentally, the band instrument industry began quite by accident.
When Charles who had received a lip injury during the Civil War came
home, he made an elastic rim on the metal mouthpiece of his own trumpet
to protect his lip. Then his friends wanted the rims on theirs, and
soon there was so much demand for them that he started making them,
using a small shed for a factory. He went on to make the mouthpiece and
finally the instrument itself. Thus began the great C. G. Conn Ltd.,
business of today.

Soon other companies were organized and followed suit in a rush to
make instruments; organize bands and help the musicians to buy the
instruments. The movement spread and in 1898 it is said that there were
1,000 industrial bands marching in the streets of the United States and
playing popular music of the Spanish-American War days.

Workers of all nationalities and occasionally executives of the
companies played in these business organizations over the country.
One millionaire industrialist, Felix Dupont, played baritone with
the Wilmington, Delaware Police Band. Fifty-five musicians, employed
in various departments of the Ford Motor Company in Detroit,
Michigan, formed a typically American group. They represented eight
nationalities--four English, ten Italians, fifteen Germans, ten
Canadians, one French, one Scotch, two Polish and twelve Americans.

In 1914 the Willy-Overland Automobile Company of Toledo, Ohio,
organized a similar fifty-piece band from various departments. Its
personnel of molders, machinists, blacksmiths, coremakers, office
workers, auto testers and common laborers all played the works of the
old masters under the leadership of Gustav Koehler.

John Wanamaker Company in New York City had a famous band with fine
leaders which it maintained in connection with the school work of its
junior employees until the New York Educational Law made it necessary
to discontinue.

The American Rolling Mill Company (Armco) Band of Middletown, Ohio, was
organized in 1921 by Frank Simon. For years it was a well-known company
and community band, touring Ohio and adjacent states. Then the company
sponsored Frank Simon and His Famous Band on the Armco NBC program for
ten years. This band is no longer in existence as the American Rolling
Mill Company changed its advertising policy at the close of the ten
years, and dropped the band.

During depression years most of the industrial bands disappeared;
but some companies, still feeling that they are a valuable asset,
have organized new ones. The Caterpillar Tractor Company at Peoria,
Illinois, is one of the several firms that keep up a concert band and a
dance band for plant members and their families.


FRANK SIMON

Like many men who have achieved success Frank Simon, celebrated
bandmaster and cornet soloist, had to help support himself as a boy. “I
was not born with a silver spoon in my mouth,” he says, “but I came up
the hard way, for which I have always been thankful.”

Frank’s parents, Sol and Bertha Simon, who operated a small dry goods
store in Middletown, Ohio, recognized their son’s talent in his early
years.

In 1899 the ten-year-old boy began studying with the local bandmaster,
Q. C. Buckles, who soon advised Mr. Simon to send his son to nearby
Cincinnati for lessons. Frank studied there with W. J. Koop, then,
first trumpet with the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra. Soon he attracted
the attention of Herman Bellstedt, eminent cornet master and military
band expert, who gave him lessons and great encouragement.

In his early teens Frank was doing the work of a man. He played in the
local Middletown Theater for road shows and also led a dance band. At
sixteen he directed the hometown band until he was hired by John C.
Weber of Cincinnati as the cornet soloist of his Prize Band of America.
Through the next few years young Simon toured the country with it and
other professional groups.

Soon the music world was talking about Frank Simon’s skillful cornet
playing. The Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra offered him a job in their
orchestra, a position he held for three years.

In 1914 Sousa asked him to be his cornet soloist and the assistant to
Herbert L. Clarke. Upon Clarke’s retirement from the band five years
later, Frank Simon succeeded him as premier soloist and assistant
leader.

But after two more years with Sousa, Simon wanted to create a great
band of his own. In 1920 he accepted an offer from the American Rolling
Mill Company to organize and conduct an industrial band for them.
Made up of fine musicians, this well-known organization successfully
advertised its sponsor at many important events in our country and in
Canada.

In 1930 when radio came into its own, Frank Simon reorganized his band
as a purely professional group. He engaged fifty talented Cincinnati
musicians for his great symphonic band which made an outstanding record
of broadcasting for ten years under one sponsor, The American Rolling
Mill Company. Simon endeared himself to young people by presenting on
each weekly broadcast some soloist or ensemble, selected from one of
our American school bands. This program became one of the most popular
on the air.

During this time Simon saw the need of keeping step with the times
and asked Ferde Grofe, eminent modern composer, to write some new
compositions for his band. A modern strain was added to his concert
band programs in the playing of numbers from Grofe’s _Grand Canyon_ and
other suites, but they did not replace the finest of classical music in
these broadcasts.

Among the honors and distinctions awarded Frank Simon is a Doctor of
Music degree conferred upon him by Capital College, Columbus, Ohio, “in
recognition of his efforts in the advancement of bands in the United
States.”

In 1932 Dr. Simon was appointed Director of the Band Department of
the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music. He at once established a band
department in the Cincinnati Conservatory which has attracted thousands
of young talented players to the school. Since the Armco Band left the
air, Dr. Simon has taken on other duties besides his responsibilities
at the Conservatory. He has been in popular demand as guest conductor,
judge and lecturer at band festivals and school band clinics in all
parts of the country.

But this has not interfered with his leadership of the artistic
concert band of about 150 musicians at the Conservatory. He gives
several concerts a year, featuring their outstanding vocalists and
instrumentalists and playing the best in band literature. His 65-piece
radio symphonic band has given local and national broadcasts.

Dr. and Mrs. Simon have two sons, David and Joseph. The older is a
doctor connected with the Jewish Hospital in Cincinnati, and Joseph is
with a radio station in Mason City, Iowa.

Dr. Simon has two hobbies, fishing and baseball. But his major hobby
might be said to be young people, for his devotion to young musicians
of the nation is widely recognized.

“Hundreds of my students are now engaged professionally in symphony
orchestras, radio and recording and in our educational institutions
throughout the land,” said Dr. Simon. “This, of course, is a source of
great pride to me.”




_The Salvation Army Band_

  In Three Colts Lane in an old wool-shed
          Glory, Hallelujah!
  We frighten the living and raise the dead,
          Sing Glory, Hallelujah,
          Shout Glory, Hallelujah!
  And while the rats were running round,
  The boys and girls Salvation found.


William Booth began the work of his Christian Mission in the poorest
slums of London in 1865. He had determined to preach the Gospel to the
masses of people who were not members of any church. The beginning
was hard. Rough crowds gathered along the streets, shouting, yelling,
pelting Booth and his followers with stones, mud or old vegetables.
Many times the ‘Salvationists’ were forced to don clean uniforms before
taking their places in their meeting.

But Booth and his workers were brave and persistent. They soon realized
that singing, even when occasionally aided by a cornet, tambourine or
drums, was not suitable music to lead their crusade. In England in that
period, brass bands were at the peak of their popularity. Fortunately,
just at that time--1878--the Fry family, a group of successful
instrumentalists were converted to Booth’s cause. They offered the
services of their brass quartette, and soon a brass band became a
necessary part of the Salvation Army.

It was a wise choice. Trumpet tones and drum beats could silence an
unruly mob, and also carry the hymn tunes far and wide over the crowd.
Not only could a band play effectively in the open air, but the players
were able to carry the instruments and march as they produced the music.

The Christian Mission was reorganized in a military fashion. The name
was changed to the Salvation Army with General Booth at the head. The
Salvation Army brass bands began to multiply rapidly.

In 1880 George Scott Railton, an officer in General Booth’s Salvation
Army, arrived in New York from London. With him came seven fine,
wholesome-looking young women to aid in bringing Christianity to the
poor, down-and-out slum dwellers in America’s greatest city.

This small group of Salvationists was well aware of the valuable help
given by band instruments in their work. But on this first appearance
in the Bowery they had to depend on their voices alone. The little
company had sailed across the Atlantic in the steerage where there was
no room for their trumpets, drums and other instruments. Bravely they
marched along the street singing hymns set to the tunes of the popular
songs of those days.

The words of _All Around the World the Salvation Army Rolls_ were sung
to the tune of _Old Black Joe_. _What a Friend We Have in Jesus_ was
fitted to the tender melody of _In the Gloaming_. These and many other
touching songs brought numerous converts from among the listeners.

Before many months had passed Commissioner Railton found a number of
instrumental players among his members. Instruments were collected,
a brass band was assembled to inspire the people and “banding”--the
Salvation Army’s word for it--began in America. Songs had a great
influence in this religious campaign, especially when accompanied by
a good brass band. The rhythmic, catchy tunes were carried to the
watching crowd and many an unsavory barrage of stale eggs or tomatoes
was stopped by the strains of the music.

As a “militant religious” order, the Salvation Army naturally follows
the military-like rules and regulations issued by the International
Headquarters in London. These rules apply to bands as all band
members are required to belong to the Salvation Army. They must obey
all regulations pertaining to their habits, their personal living,
religious beliefs, wearing of the uniforms and their support of the
organization.

The Salvation Army Band’s top man is the bandmaster who is responsible
for all the music produced by the organization. He chooses the band
members after each one has been carefully investigated by the Salvation
Army authorities. The bandmaster also trains his group, and conducts
the rehearsals and concerts.

The bandleader, or band Sergeant, conducts the religious services for
the band members only. He is responsible for their spiritual welfare.
It is he who gives the bandsmen advice, counsel and discipline.
According to an unwritten law, each bandsman--unless previously
released by an acceptable excuse--attends every rehearsal and
engagement throughout the entire year.

The officers of the Salvation Army are chosen from the soldiers in the
ranks, who have had a high school education. They receive nine months’
training in one of the four Salvation Army Schools. This is a varied
course which even includes instruction in how to choose a wife or a
husband. No officers are permitted to marry anyone not in the Salvation
Army, nor without the consent of their superior officers. Army wives
always hold the same rank as their husbands.

Cadets, in addition to their other courses, learn to play several
musical instruments, including the accordion, euphonium, trumpets and
trombones. They are graduated as a probationary Lieutenant. After one
year of correspondence study--still on strict probation--they are given
the commission of 2nd Lieutenant and the standing of ordained ministers
of the Gospel. Their training continues through various ranks: 1st
Lieutenant, Captain, Major, in staff as Brigadier, Lieutenant Colonel,
Colonel, Lieutenant Commissioner to Commissioner.

The Salvation Army bands are in three different grades. The top-ranking
ones are the various Headquarters Staff Bands, all well-trained, expert
musicians. The Corps bands come second--there are many of them--more
bands of this class than in any other musical organization in the
world except school bands. One night each week band rehearsal is held
in each Corps hall and all the youngsters in the neighborhood gather
there, welcome to listen and learn. Many Corps bands hold a summer
camp, two weeks or more, for young musicians who are anxious to play in
a band.

The third band group is selected from the young people of the Salvation
Army with fully 18,000 members. These youth organizations are feeders
for the Corps bands. Many young musicians have been helped by this
organization. When a boy, Harry James--the famous trumpeter--played
in a Salvation Army band in Texas. George Paxton also took his early
instruction on the cornet in a Salvation Army boy’s band in Newark, New
Jersey.

No members of a Salvation Army receives any salary for his services.
James Petrillo once asked a bandsman in a street corner Salvation Army
band “What union do you belong to?” “The Union of God,” the player
answered. Petrillo made no reply but threw a coin on the drum as he
passed on.

The Salvation Army in the United States is divided into four
territories and each has a music secretary who directs all the musical
activities in his section. At present, these officers and their
territories are as follows:

  Brigadier William Broughton--West   --San Francisco
  Major Frank Longino        --South  --Atlanta
  Captain Richard E. Holz    --East   --New York
  Lieutenant Bernard Smith   --Central--Chicago

There are approximately 700 large, all-brass Salvation Army bands in
this country. These are among the most outstanding:

  Flint Citadel (Michigan)
  Oakland Citadel (California)
  Boston Palace (Massachusetts)
  Detroit Citadel (Michigan)
  Lehigh Citadel (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania)
  Brooklyn Citadel (New York)
  Los Angeles Congress Hall (California)
  Syracuse Citadel (New York)
  Atlanta Temple (Georgia)
  New York Temple (New York)
  San Francisco Citadel (California)

The International Staff Band at the Headquarters in London is perhaps
the most widely-known of these Salvation Army bands. Many prominent
official positions and men of noted various professions may be found
playing beside a music-loving laborer or some one in a lowly walk of
life.

The New York City Staff Band of thirty men was organized in 1887 and
has played continuously ever since. This is the most famous Salvation
Army band in the United States. Brigadier William E. Bearchell, the
bandmaster, is an outstanding musician, versatile and talented. He is
a composer, a chorus conductor, organist and former bandmaster of the
Brooklyn Citadel Corps Band, which was then known as one of the finest
Salvation Army bands in America.

The New York City Staff Band is remarkable for its distinctive tone
color. This is due to the use of several unusual instruments: the
flugel-horn, the E-flat cornet and the G-trombone. The handle of this
trombone slides the slide down farther than other trombones and makes
the tone much deeper.

This famous band has given many concerts throughout Canada, toured
England where they played at Buckingham Palace, Crystal Palace and
various famous places in London. They have played at the White House
for every President since Theodore Roosevelt first invited them. They
have been heard in New York at the Metropolitan Opera House, Carnegie
Hall, Madison Square Garden, at the World’s Fair, and in great halls,
universities and cathedrals in all parts of the United States.

The Chicago Staff Band of the Central Territory Headquarters is another
nationally-famous band. This organization is highly rated by music
circles in the United States. With their outstanding bandmaster,
Captain Carl Lindstrom, these thirty bandsmen were recently guests of
the Texas Music Educators’ Convention.

In 1883 a music publishing department was established in London.
There all vocal and instrumental music was carefully edited and
published. This was in accordance with the rule that all music used
in the Salvation Army must be composed or arranged by its members
and published by the organization. This regulation is to insure the
use of music that is absolutely suitable for the service in order to
obtain the proper atmosphere and results. Good, appropriate music is
essential. The Salvation Army music is not intended for the use of the
public but for the Army alone.

The music material is thoroughly screened. Each number is played by the
Headquarters Staff Band for the Music Editorial Board, which carefully
judges its fitness and desirability.

Today in the United States the Salvation Army music is published in San
Francisco, Chicago and New York under the same rules and restrictions
as were originally observed in London. The instruments used by the
Salvation Army bands all over the world, are made in the Army’s
instrument factories at St. Albans, England. As with the Army music,
these instruments are sold only to Salvationists.

No longer can the music of the Salvation Army be classed as cheap or
inferior. For more than fifty years, high-ranking musicians, composers,
and outstanding performers on various musical instruments have
successfully done their part to build and keep the music and the bands
of the Salvation Army to a high standard of content and performance.

While contributions to Salvation Army Music are made by musicians from
all parts of the globe, three of the most prominent composers are
Americans. They are Erik Leidzen, considered by many as the foremost
arranger for bands in the world today; Emil Soderstrom, staff arranger
for NBC in Chicago; and Brigadier William Broughton, who has written
more music for the use of the Salvation Army than any other American
composer.

That the Salvation Army bands have achieved a high rating is proven by
the interest shown in them by Sousa in his time and by today’s noted
bandleader, Dr. Edwin Franko Goldman. And also by Albert Spalding,
Marian Anderson and other “greats” in the music world who have appeared
on the Salvation Army Band programs.

The Salvation Army bands proclaim salvation through their music. It
sustains the religious feelings, spirit, and fervor of the converts.
Salvationists regard their music as the greatest part of their
religious service. Some officers say it is fully sixty per cent more
effective than their preaching.

That the Salvation Army follows the ideas of the ancient Greek
philosophers is true: “the first duty of music is to ennoble the soul.”
Perhaps the musicians of the Salvation Army have come closer to the
real use and meaning of music. They know its power to rescue hardened
souls from sin, to inspire the disheartened with courage, to do right
and to instill new joy into saddened lives.


CAPTAIN RICHARD E. HOLZ

“Captain Holz? I’m sorry sir, he just left with the band. They’re
giving a half-hour concert on the steps of the Sub-Treasury building
down in Wall Street. Helen Jepson of the Metropolitan Opera is going
to sing with them today. You might call the Captain here in about
three-quarters of an hour.” And the man at the information desk in
the large lobby of the headquarters of the New York Salvation Army,
smilingly turned to the next in the waiting line.

Even as the telephone conversation began the tall, young Captain had
been climbing into a crowded auto that had been waiting at the curb in
front of the huge Centennial Memorial Temple.

Captain Holz is indeed a busy man. As the Territorial Music Secretary,
of the Eastern division of the Salvation Army, he is directly
responsible for all the music activities in eleven eastern states.
This means that Captain Holz supervises 266 Salvation Army bands as
well as small instrumental groups and vocal choruses and glee clubs.
He also directs the New York Temple chorus of more than 100 voices.
In addition, the Captain is Deputy Bandmaster of the famous New York
Headquarters Staff Band, conductor of its fine male chorus and also of
the Brass Octette.

Captain Holz is thoroughly accustomed to the life of a soldier in this
“militant religious” order. He is a fourth generation Salvationist,
born in the Salvation Army, when his father Brigadier Ernest Holz was
in charge of the Salvation Army Corps in Pittston, Pennsylvania.

A move to the Southwest sent Richard to high school in Oklahoma City.
There, following his bent, at the age of sixteen, he was conductor
of the Salvation Army band. He attended the University of Oklahoma,
majoring in music education. Young Mr. Holz came to New York in
1935, worked in the Public Relations Department at the Territorial
Headquarters and at the same time continued his college studies at the
New York University. In 1937, he entered the Salvation Army Training
College in New York, received his Commission and was appointed a Corps
officer in Elizabeth, New Jersey.

Captain Richard Holz and Lieutenant Ruby Walker were married at the
Centennial Memorial Temple in New York on January 7, 1941. Commissioner
Richard E. Holz, the grandfather of the groom performed the marriage
ceremony, and the Headquarters Staff Band provided the music for the
happy occasion. The young couple made their home in Elizabeth until
Captain Holz was appointed in the United States First Air Force in
April 1943.

Even during the War, music continued to be one of the Captain’s chief
interests when his Salvation Army trumpet “Shorty” sounded church calls
and accompanied the singing. At Laurinburg--Maxton Army Air Base--he
received glider training with the Airborne Troops in the Troop Carrier
Command. And as chaplain of the 872nd and 882nd Airborne Engineers,
he served in New Guinea, Leyte and Okinawa. Captain Holz was with the
first group of Americans to enter Japan when, on September 1st, 1945,
he and his jeep “Sweet Chariot” were flown to Tokio.

It was upon his return from service in the United States Army that
Captain Holz was appointed Territorial Music Secretary of the Eastern
Section of the Salvation Army. He has written a number of musical
compositions. His works, as well as that of other outstanding
musicians, have noticeably improved the quality of the music of the
Salvation Army.

Captain Holz believes that many of the new attractive ideas found in
modern dance music “can be used just as easily in the service of the
Lord as in bebop.” Many of the well-known band and orchestra leaders,
early in their music experience played in Salvation Army bands.
The bands of Stan Kenton and Woody Herman are two of the Captain’s
favorites.

Another one of Captain Holz’s duties--not a minor job either--he is
Editor of the Salvation Army Music Publishing Department at the New
York Headquarters. Many musicians say that the best Salvation Army
music in this country comes from this department.

At this time Captain Holz is arranging a Salvation Army Hymnal for
Youth and also is putting the finishing touches on an instruction
method for cornet, horn, baritone, tuba and trombone.




_Merle Evans, Toscanini of the Big Top_


“See the waltzing horses keeping time to the music of the band,
Johnny!” exclaimed one of the many fathers who had taken his son to the
circus. The horses seemed to be crossing their slender legs to the beat
of the music, and at each boom of the drums they reared gracefully.

But Johnny’s father didn’t know that Merle Evans, bandmaster of the
Ringling Brothers-Barnum and Bailey Circus, was keeping his third eye
on the waltzing, glossy-coated horses and directing his band to follow
them. Merle says that he uses three eyes during performances--one to
watch his music and one to glance at his players, but the third one
never misses anything that goes on under the Big Top.

Actually, horses learn to dance without music. Evans watches them go
through the intricate steps taught by the trainers. Then he chooses a
composition to match the rhythm of their dance, usually a waltz or a
galop.

Merle Evans, the Toscanini of the Big Top, is now in his thirty-second
year as leader of the Ringling Brothers-Barnum and Bailey Circus
twenty-seven-piece Band. During this time he has not missed a single
performance out of more than 14,000 engagements, and he has no
assistant.

Merle began his musical career at an early age, and his cornet has been
an obsession ever since. His first teachers were the local musicians
in his hometown of Columbus, Kansas, where he was born fifty some
years ago. At the age of ten he was playing in the town band. For
the next few years he practiced six hours every day. He listened to
such “greats” as Clarke, Sousa and Gilmore then tried to copy their
phrasing, tones and style.

Merle says, “I came up the hard way. I was never able to study at
famous conservatories or under famous teachers. But I believed that if
you work hard, treat people right and keep looking up to better things
all the time, your time will come.”

And Merle’s opportunity did come at the age of fifteen when he was
asked to sign up with the “Mighty Brundage Shows,” a traveling
carnival. His parents and sisters tearfully bade him goodby. His mother
was worried about the bad company he would keep, but his letters soon
assured her that in the circus there must be a strict schedule of
rehearsal, right living and sound training. Merle had little leisure
time as his job included playing in the band, helping to set up the
props and working the carousel.

Merle next signed up with a band on a show boat on the Mississippi
River. In the towns where they gave shows, the band led the parades.
He not only learned much from this larger band, but he had time to
practice five hours a day.

A succession of jobs followed. While working for a touring medicine
show, Merle played his cornet to attract the crowd then turned to
packing pills into bottles to sell to them. From this work he went to
the National Stock Company which opened up in Baton Rouge. He says,
“I not only led the band, but I also took the tickets and worked the
pulleys for the ‘Saw Mill.’ This act was the climax of the show, a
thriller act where a young girl narrowly escaped being sawed in two.”

In 1918 Merle went out with Gus Hill’s Minstrel Band of twenty-eight
musicians. This was a busy life of long parades and long programs.
About this time he realized that he should be looking for a better job.
He had heard the great Sousa several times and he yearned to have a
band like his.

Things began looking up for Merle when Ranch 101 hired him to play for
its huge Wild West show whose main attraction was Buffalo Bill. Merle
recalls, “Buffalo Bill used to stop to talk to me about my music and
encourage me to keep on with it.” Soon at the age of nineteen Merle was
asked to lead the band for the combined Ringling Brothers-Barnum and
Bailey Circus.

Since that time Maestro Evans has truly been the pulse of “The Greatest
Show on Earth.” He and his all-brass array play more than 225 different
cues during each show. The music ranges from _Big Time Boogie_ to
selections by Wagner and Tchaikovsky. The typical galops and marches
that they play were composed mostly by men whose ears were tuned to the
sounds and atmosphere of the kingdom of spangles.

But special music has been written for the Merle Evans Band by the
distinguished composers, Deems Taylor and Igor Stravinsky. The musical
scores, _Circus Suite_ and _Through the Looking Glass_, Deems Taylor
wrote for the 1945 plot of _Alice in Wonderland_. Stravinsky’s music
was arranged for the first elephant ballet ever to be staged. Fifty
elephants in fetching ballet skirts performed a dance routine whose
music called for elaborate changes of rhythm.

For a number of years Evans himself composed most of the original music
and made the musical arrangements for the star acts--waltzes, foxtrots,
marches, galops, rhumbas, tangoes, cakewalks, or various combinations
of rhythms. He did this while the circus was in winter quarters at
Sarasota, Florida, where the next years’ productions are prepared.
“Music has changed a lot since I joined the big show,” Merle said
recently. “Now we have much of it arranged for our band. We also have
production numbers--and that is special music.”

Aerialists have said that it is rhythm that makes it possible for them
to accomplish the seemingly impossible in their flying trapeze acts.
Sometimes Evans spends much time and effort finding the appropriate
music for them. When Alberty, the “upside-down daredevil,” needed
music to accompany his swaying back and forth atop a forty-five-foot
pole, Evans finally chose _Pagan Love Song_, a slow waltz.

He must combine different melodies and rhythms to make the varied
pattern needed for times such as the swooping of _The Famous Ringling
100 Clowns_ into the show. But the music, like a colorful backdrop,
sets off these boisterous buffoons as they bustle, blunder, or rush
hither and thither in baffled confusion. For the clowns’ entrance, the
band plays _High Riding_ and for a clown “walk around” they play _The
Anvil Chorus_.

Evans spends about eight weeks preparing the circus score, and of
course that is subject to change during the thirty-two-week season.
The bandsmen must be drilled on the new material and rehearsed on the
routine so that they are ready when the circus opens at Madison Square
Garden in New York each April.

The veteran bandmaster and his men present a splendid picture in their
blue uniforms with red-striped trousers. His musicians come from
various backgrounds--some even from symphony orchestras. Theirs is a
difficult routine as they average seven hours of playing a day. They
must be constantly alert and have the ability to adjust instantly to
any possible change in rhythm.

The band has a repertoire of memorized selections to play at a moment’s
notice in time of need. Sometimes death flies along with the circus
actors’ thrilling performances. Gay marches are used to cover up
accidents. When Sousa’s _Stars and Stripes Forever_ suddenly breaks
into any other music, it means just one thing--“All Out!” The circus
people call it _The Disaster March_.

Evans had to use this march in 1944 at Hartford, Connecticut, during
the worst fire in circus history. He was one of the first to see the
flames racing along the top and he immediately swung into the Sousa
march, leading loud with his cornet. Hearing the strains roll forth
like a call to arms, the bull man in the back yard shouted, “Tails!”
and forty elephants hooked up trunks and tails and swung out of the lot
into the street. Trainers rounded up wild animals--not one remained
loose. Troupers mobilized to direct the crowd out.

Evans and his band literally split the rafters repeating the stirring
march until the kettle drums caught fire. Only when the main pole
began to sway did he give the order, “Jump!” and the men cleared the
stand. In this heroic action Evans’s band had again proven that circus
bandsmen must be alert men of iron nerves and perfect control.

Merle Evans, self-made musician, has enjoyed an illustrious career.
Besides his circus work, he has directed bands in the Middle West, on
the coasts and in Europe--in programs that have included Bach, Brahms,
Tchaikovsky and Beethoven. He has taught the art of cornet playing in
universities of Texas. He has made recordings for Columbia, and an
album entitled _Circus_ was cut in the late thirties.

During the winter seasons of 1921, 1922 and 1923, Evans went to London
to direct the International Circus band at Olympia. Members of bands of
Welsh, Scotch, Irish and the Coldstream Guards made up the group that
he led. They played at St. James or at Buckingham Castle in the morning
and at Olympia in the afternoon and evening. Merle said, “I believe I
am the only bandleader that ever went to Europe alone.”

Recently during the winter seasons, Ringling Brothers-Barnum and
Bailey Circus has taken its feature acts from Sarasota, Florida, to
Havana, Cuba, for five weeks of performances, at the Sports Palace,
there Evans, taking his double drummer and organ, used fourteen Cuban
musicians for his band. He said, “I had men from the Havana Symphony
and from the Police, the Navy, the Army and the Municipal Bands. They
surely did a fine job, too!”

Besides playing concerts for state fairs and other Florida groups,
during the winter, Merle finds time in February to play three weeks
for School Assembly Service in different parts of the country. At the
different high schools he rehearses the bands in playing circus music
in the morning. Then that is given as an assembly program.

“I play cornet with the band,” Merle says, “I use a whistle and change
the music just as we do for acts in the circus, and you would be
surprised how well they can do it.” In addition, he gives a talk on his
experiences in the show business.

Merle has two obsessions--his love for popcorn and his love for his
cornet. He must have his daily ration of the former both summer and
winter. After a hard day’s work he relaxes at home by playing cornet
solos or listening to good records--with a bowl of popcorn nearby.

Super-bandmaster Merle Evans has made a lasting name for himself--not
only in circus band music but in concert band music as well.

The story of the Merle Evans Circus Band is in a big way the story of
all modern circus bands.

However it is far removed from those of yesterday. At the turn of the
nineteenth century, the circus had one or two fiddlers to furnish
the music for their shows. But more often the owners relied upon the
players they could get to help out in the towns where they appeared.
The owner himself furnished the music in the John Robinson Circus,
which made its debut in 1854. John propped his chair against a center
pole and fiddled away while the bareback riders rode their cavorting
horses and the acrobats performed their dangerous stunts.

A rival circus, Quick and Mead, boasted a two-man band with a
hurdy-gurdy and a bass drum. The hurdy-gurdy player was a specialist
hired for that job alone. But various members of the company took turns
as parade drummers, sometimes with more noise than rhythm.

Doubling as musicians was the usual thing after the circus parade
became a big feature of show day. Then clowns were required to fill in
as musicians, and there were some very fine “clown musicians” such
as the renowned Adler. A clown band not only marched in the lineup
but usually played during part of the big show program. Sometimes the
ticket sellers helped out. Gradually the size of the bands increased
until there were as many as thirty musicians.

Then as now everything centered around the circus band. The um-pahs
blaring forth from the marchers or from the top of the big, gayly
painted band wagon drawn by eight coal-black horses became an
unforgettable part of the memory of children and adults.

After the parade the band played an hour’s concert under the big top.
The immense drum, on wheels fully six feet high, emitted tremendous
booms as it was drawn about the arena.

During the acts that followed, the bass drummer could make or break an
act. Acrobats, riders, and clowns timed their tricks to the boom of the
drum. Stunts such as the midget rider falling off his horse, catching
it by the tail, and lifting himself into the saddle with a thump were
much funnier with the drum’s booms. The clown’s awkward falls and
his antics which involved noises like exploding cigars were always
accented by the thud of the bass drum at the right moment. Sometimes
the bandmaster in order to amuse the audience would pick up the rhythm
of the movements of a latecomer who was vainly trying to locate his
family. And there seemed to be a march for every occasion and situation.

Now all that is changed. Ablaze with color and pageantry as the
modern circus is, its band must furnish the circus atmosphere, during
the entire performance. Besides playing an half-hour concert at the
beginning of the show, it binds the acts together, as well as furnish
the rhythm and swing to the individual acts.

The bandsmen today must be musicians of ability and of great endurance.
In parade days they often played as many as fifty marches, but now
the larger circus bands play more than 200 pieces during a three-hour
performance. Frequently they must change tempo and score to follow the
change of routine in some animal act. If a panther decides to “slink”
instead of taking a bow as he usually does at that time, the band must
instantly synchronize its music to the panther’s movements. It must
be ready and alert to meet any emergency. There is not a moment’s
relaxation during the two shows a day.

However a circus bandsman, like other members of the Big Top family,
gets one whiff of tanbark and sawdust in his nostrils and is lost to
other fields of music forever.




_College and University Bands_


Almost every college has its football team and its band, and every
year some of these bands put on exhibitions which rival great Broadway
shows. But these organizations have come a long way since college bands
began.

The first entertainments staged by the bands at football games usually
consisted of formation of the initials of the opposing teams. Year
by year their efforts became more ambitious and the results grew
more elaborate. Today they carry out intricate designs with perfect
precision while the appropriate music rolls on directed by one or more
strutting drum majors whirling their gleaming batons high in the air.

Spectacular formations have included a flag with a “C” inside it, which
waved as the band played “Wave the Flag for Old Chicago.” Another was
a stalk of corn that “grew” on the fifty-yard line in honor of the
University of Iowa. A giant clock was portrayed with a second-hand that
moved around telling the time accurately. The word “Ohio” appeared
changing into “Auto” with the O’s as wheels so it rolled down the
field.

Other figures showed a “Gopher” for Minnesota, a “Mustang” for Southern
Methodist, a “Trojan Horse” for Southern California and a “Wildcat” for
Northwestern.

These shows have to be exactly timed to a split-second for there are
just fifteen minutes in the period between halves. When both college
bands are present, each one has only a brief 7½ minutes for its
performance although there must have been hours and hours of practicing
both the marching and the music.

In addition to the marching band many colleges and universities have
concert bands and often well-trained orchestras. These band departments
are under full-time conductors and bandmasters and the players receive
full college credits.


THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS BAND

For many years the University of Illinois Band has been called the
“largest, finest college band in the world.” 360 to 380 members are on
its rolls. It consists of three organizations: the concert band and
the first and second regimental bands. The highest ranking unit is the
concert band of from 115 to 125 pieces. Membership in the three bands
is based on the student’s proficiency.

The Illinois University Band is used by the entire University, playing
for all special occasions, commencement and other events. The football
marching band is made up of the concert band, the first regimental band
and at times it is aided by some members of the second. Frequently the
band plays over local radio stations.

The football marching band is made up of the concert band and the first
regimental group, two-hundred or more bandsmen. It makes an impressive
appearance in the brilliant orange and blue uniforms, every instrument
held in proper position and every movement in perfect unison.

A picturesque figure precedes the great band. One of the men
representing Chief Illiniwek, the symbol of the fighting Illini,
dressed in the traditional Sioux Indian costume, does an Indian dance
down the field in front of the band.


ALBERT AUSTIN HARDING

The Illinois University Bands, famed not only for size but also for
the excellent quality of their playing, owe their reputation to Doctor
Albert A. Harding, for so long a time their leader. Through many years
his was the outstanding name among college band conductors in the
United States.

“Austin” was born in Georgetown, Illinois, but after his mother’s death
when he was a small boy, he lived with his grandparents in the little
town of Paris, Illinois.

He acquired his first musical training by tooting a cheap brass cornet
in a practice room which was actually an old barn. His music rack was
the dashboard of an antiquated sleigh.

His grandfather, a loyal Democrat, was quite disgusted when his
grandson played his horn in a Republican rally for William McKinley.
“Aus,” as the boy was called, was asked to learn the fife and play
in a fife and drum corps organized by the Illinois State Republican
Committee. Instead the boy bought a piccolo and became such an expert
player that he was appointed leader of the high school band. After his
graduation young Harding became leader of a dance orchestra, playing
for dances in Champaign and Urbana, Illinois; Terre Haute, Indiana and
the surrounding area.

Upon entering the University of Illinois, Harding majored in
Engineering and also kept on with his musical activities. He played in
the University band as well as in several local organizations. In 1905,
his senior year, Harding was asked to direct the University band of
about fifty pieces. This position Harding held for forty-three years,
building--according to John Philip Sousa--“the greatest college band in
the country.”

Harding was a kindly, sympathetic man, always friendly and helpful to
his students. He originated the popular Band Clinics, now grown to
state, regional and national scope. Another of Dr. Harding’s creative
ideas was the use of a-capella singing without instruments on the
football field. The “March of the Illini” sung in this way always ended
the half-time show in a football game. He also introduced the popular,
marching-type glockenspiel, called the “bell-lyra,” because of its
lyre-shaped frame.

From the time Harding began with the band in 1905, he trained it in
accordance with his belief that a university band should reflect the
quality and dignity of the university itself. He always had the theory
that the band should play the same type music that is played by the
orchestra. He insisted that at least a part of the program should
consist of symphonic music.

Dr. Harding received many honors during his years of service in the
University. His fame was widespread. In 1936 the music publishers of
Great Britain paid Harding’s expenses to England and Europe to obtain
his advice and counsel on music publication matters. He was treated
with the honors usually accorded a visiting ruler.

In 1941 at the first University and College Band Conference, Harding
was unanimously elected Honorary President for life. He was given the
high military honor of a Colonel in the Illinois National Guard on the
Governor’s staff. Both the Phillips University of Oklahoma and Davidson
College of North Carolina awarded Harding the honorary degree of Doctor
of Music. He has been guest conductor of many of the most famous bands
ever assembled in the United States, and has served as adjudicator of
thirty state band contests and four National meets.

Doctor Harding not only directed the vast activities of the University
bands and orchestra, but during his years of service he put in
countless hours of night work, transcribing, composing and arranging
music for these groups. There is little music published with parts for
an organization of more than 350 men. But Harding’s knowledge of the
range and quality of every variety of instrument and his great talent
enabled him to provide much original material for his great band.

Because of his deep admiration for Harding, John Philip Sousa
bequeathed his huge band library to the University of Illinois.
This band department now possesses one of the most complete musical
libraries in this country.


MARK H. HINDSLEY

In 1934 Mark H. Hindsley became Assistant Director of the Illinois
University Band. He has since worked constantly with Dr. Harding with
the exception of the time he spent in military service during 1942-1946.

Professor Hindsley was graduated “with high distinction” from Indiana
University in 1925. He was one of five men chosen as a Rhodes
Fellowship contestant. He received his A.M. degree from the same
university in 1927, and at that time was awarded a Phi Beta Kappa key.

His thorough musical education was continued in a number of well-known
schools of music, including the University of Illinois; and the
Sherwood School of Music, Chicago. Professor Hindsley was Director
of Bands and Music Instructor for four years at his Alma Mater. His
next position was Director of Instrumental Music at Cleveland Heights,
Ohio, 1929-1934. From there he went to assist Dr. Harding, becoming
Acting-Director of the University Band of Illinois in 1948. Upon Dr.
Harding’s retirement in 1950, Professor Hindsley succeeded him as Head
of the Band Department.

Professor Hindsley’s professional experience has been broadened
by extensive summer teaching in a dozen or more of the big-name
universities. He has been in great demand as a guest conductor and
adjudicator of contests. As a composer and writer on musical subjects
Professor Hindsley has achieved a wide reputation. He is also the
recipient of many honors and honorary memberships in Musical and
Educational associations.


THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN BAND

Several decades ago a drum major in a Michigan University Band tossed
his shining baton high over the goal post. This stunt was copied by
nearly every college band in this country. A tradition exists at Ann
Arbor that at each football game the drum major must thus throw his
baton on high _and catch it_ if the Michigan team is to win.

The University of Michigan Band was first mentioned in the school
annals of 1844. It was then an organization of nine men. From that
time through three score years and ten the band led an intermittent
existence. In 1895 it was recognized officially when the Board of
Regents ordered the band to furnish music at football games, during
Commencement week and for other social events. Three years later the
Athletic Association purchased the first uniforms for the musicians.

Captain Wilfred Wilson in 1915 became a member of the faculty, to teach
band instruments and conduct the band of seventy members. The next
director, Mr. Larson, who served for one year, was followed by Nicholas
Falcone. His work was very successful through a long period.

William D. Revelli succeeded Falcone in 1935 and under his skillful
leadership the University of Michigan Band has become outstanding
among all University bands of the country. “A model band” it is called
by one of the most prominent conductors in the United States.

This organization is composed of three units: the Wolverine Marching
Band, Varsity Band and the Concert Band. There is a combined membership
of more than 250.

The Marching Band admits no women players. The other two units accept
both men and women, but only those who are extremely competent can
become members of any division of this university band. In addition,
each member must meet all scholastic requirements and pass the physical
examination. The Varsity Band is, of course, a feeder for the Concert
and Marching Bands. The Wolverine Marching Band has established a wide
reputation for perfect precision in marching and in making intricate
formations on the football field.

The University of Michigan’s Symphonic Band numbers about one hundred
members. It is rated throughout the United States as an unusually fine
concert band. Dr. Edwin Franko Goldman, the famous New York bandmaster
has said, “The University of Michigan Symphony Band stands without a
peer among college bands.”

A late issue of a national magazine is quoted as saying: “It steps
fastest and plays best of the college outfits that provide music and
spectacle on football fields. The Michigan College Marching Band is
to today’s football what frosting is to cake. The brassy music and
resplendent uniforms are as spirited a part of the spectacle as the
game itself.

“In the past few decades the country’s 500 college and university bands
have perfected a type of music and military choreography that by now
has become a specialized American popular art form.

“This art form reached a peak at the University of Michigan--Revelli.”


WILLIAM D. REVELLI

Dr. William D. Revelli is generally recognized today as one of the
leading band conductors of the United States. He received an extensive
musical training, having studied under such noted instructors as Felix
Borowski, Leon Sametini, Charles Spadoni, L. V. Saar and George Dasch.
His education was continued at the Beethoven Music Conservatory in
St. Louis, the Chicago Musical College, Columbia Music School and the
Vandercook School of Music in Chicago.

In 1925 Dr. Revelli was appointed Supervisor of Music in the Hobart,
Indiana public schools, a post which he held for ten years. From
there he went to the University of Michigan as Conductor of Bands and
Wind Instruments. At that time Revelli was the only instructor of the
Band Department with its ninety-six members. Today it lists seventeen
instructors for its more than 350 bandsmen.

Through almost a score of years Dr. Revelli has upheld the highest
ideals for perfect band performances by all the units of the Michigan
University Bands. These high standards have exerted a great influence
upon all college and university music organizations over the country.
This conductor believes that a College band is of the greatest help
to a student majoring in music. It gives him “opportunity for concert
ensemble experience, a knowledge of music theory, composition,
conducting and social contacts as well as skill in performing.”

In June, 1947, in acknowledgement of his worthwhile work in the field
of music, the degree of Doctor of Music was given Mr. Revelli by the
Chicago Musical College. Many other honors have been awarded this great
music master: he was made a member of the Board of Directors of the
American Bandmasters’ Association, member of Alpha Kappa Lamda, Phi Mu
Alpha, Honorary National Grand President of Kappa Kappa Psi and of many
other Societies. For about fifteen years Dr. Revelli has edited the
Band Department of the _Etude_, a leading music magazine, and for more
than five years he has been editor of the Michigan Band Series.

Each year, in every part of the United States Dr. Revelli makes
numerous appearances as a guest conductor, a clinician or a judge of
band festivals. Without doubt he is one of the country’s outstanding
band conductors.

[Illustration]




_High School Bands_


The first World War and the service bands marching in uniforms made the
people of America _band conscious_. The trumpets and cornets rang out
boldly in _Over There_ and _Tipperary_, while the saxophones moaned
their way through _Avalon_ and _Roses of Picardy_. Everyone whistled or
sang _K-K-K-Katy_, _Beautiful Katy_ or _Pack Up Your Troubles In Your
Old Kit Bag_. Then the War ended and the mood faded.

Radios came into general use. A few fine bands and orchestras were
assembled by the large radio companies. Their new records, perfectly
produced, became widely popular. People found it unnecessary to travel
to cities to hear good music, and thousands of trained bandsmen were
left without jobs. The manufacturers of band instruments suffered great
losses in their business until they discovered a new field in working
with high school bands.

American youth ran wild with the “school band” idea, but with capable
instruction and supervision the amateur organizations soon became
worthwhile projects. The ex-soldier bandsmen jumped at chances to
teach and direct high school bands. The instrument makers sold them
the various instruments on reasonable terms and the music dealers
generously furnished the music at reduced rates.

Financial aid was made possible by the Landers Band Tax Law. Major
George W. Landers, a noted army and municipal bandleader of Clarinda,
Iowa, was the author of a movement for state legislation to permit
minor cities to tax themselves for the support of municipal bands. This
law was passed and more than one-half the states of the Union quickly
adopted the measure. Major Landers is one of the few reformers who has
lived to see his plan working. Now in his 90’s he is an Honorary Life
Member of the National Bandmasters’ Association.

Another great aid to the high school bands was a national band contest
sponsored by music manufacturers who gave the winners generous money
prizes. The first venture in 1923 was a huge success and started the
contest idea off with a bang. This was the beginning of a most profound
movement which worked a decided change in the whole status of bands in
the United States, and from which an entirely new school music program
grew.

A number of school boards woke up to the cultural and educational value
of the new band development among the youth. They made it a regular
part of the curriculum, and school credits were given the course.

National band contests were sponsored by various industries, service
clubs, and often by state fairs. Beginning in 1925 contests were held
annually in various cities. The heads of the Service Bands and tops in
concert bands and other noted musical organizations gladly cooperated
in this great musical movement by acting as judges and band leaders.
The meet held at Flint, Michigan in 1930 was highly spectacular. John
Philip Sousa led forty-two large bands in a mammoth concert before an
audience of 75,000.

Although school bands originated in the Midwest states, they soon
sprang up like mushrooms over the entire nation. In some states as
many as 600 to 700 bands entered state-wide competition. The idea
grew too large for the plan, and in 1937 the country was divided into
ten regions. Contests were held in each state, then these winners
competed in the regional meets, and the victors joined in the national
competitions.

The name “Competition Festival” replaced the title “Contests.” Instead
of selecting a first, second and third winner in each group of
contestants and giving them prizes, the rating plan is now used--five
ratings for the best performances in each class of musicians entered.
The students are not competing against any one person but are trying to
equal or approach a perfect standard (or example) of performance. The
ratings are listed as follows:

  1. _Best_ conceivable performance of the class which is being judged.

  2. _Unusually_ fine performance.

  3. _Good_ performance.

  4. _Average_ performance.

  5. A performance showing much room for improvement.

The leading authorities in the field of music education have come to
believe that “the principal purpose of competition _in_ music is to
advance the cause of education _through_ music.” They feel that this
activity contributes great value in building character through the
experience, team work, good fellowship and the ability to be good
losers as well as proud winners.

After the division of the country into regional areas in 1939, 20,000
to 25,000 high school bands were listed in the United States. In 1950
a report on Music Education in the schools states that 35,000 high
schools have bands. In several states departments of music education
have been introduced. The American Music Conference attributes this
upsurge in music interest to demands on school systems made by parents.
In more than 500 communities in 21 states parents have organized
“Community Music Councils” to support school programs, consult with
school principals and boards, and to insist upon the employment of
music supervisors and instructors.

On many occasions unusual means have been used to arouse and stimulate
the interest of student players. The directors of a number of Wisconsin
school bands hit upon the novel idea of combining a band clinic and a
circus.

In Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, Dr. Lawrence Skilbred, director of music
education and 24 other band directors decided to engage Merle Evans,
the famous leader of the Ringling Brothers’ Band and hire a miniature
three-ring circus of sixteen acts.

Each of the twenty-four bands in the group was allowed to send five
of their star players. Over 100 outstanding student musicians began
rehearsing including Ringlings’ music for their Grand Entry, _Red
Wagons_ and _Circus Days_. The gymnasium in the Fond du Lac High School
was transformed into a three-ring circus. The demand for tickets
couldn’t be supplied. The performance was perfect. Every step of the
military ponies, each swing of the trapeze, every pirouette of the
waltzing lion was accompanied with appropriate music from the band. At
the conclusion Bandmaster Evans mopped his brow and told the All-Star
players, “Everything went like clockwork. You were the largest band I
have ever conducted--and one of the best!”


THE FARM AND TRADES SCHOOL BAND

Generally acknowledged as the first School Band in America is “The
Farm and Trades School Band” of Thompson’s Island, in Boston Harbor,
Massachusetts. This school, established in Boston in 1814, was moved to
its present location nineteen years later.

Nathaniel Hawthorne visited the Island school in 1837 and fully
described it in “The American Notebooks,” calling it “The Manual Labor
School for Boys.” Today, just as then, besides courses in Junior
and Senior high school studies, practical courses are taught in
Agriculture, iron forging, painting, printing, woodworking, mechanical
drawing, steam engineering and boat operation. The pupils spend half
their time in classes and half in working at their trades.

The School band was organized in 1857 and has been in continuous
existence ever since--for almost a century. The boys’ first attempt at
making music was on tissue paper-covered combs. This effect was soon
improved by the addition of a bass viol, three violins, a sax horn, a
cornopean and a small drum.

The principal of the school, John R. Morse, was director and general
supervisor, and a special instrument instructor assisted him. The band
increased in number rapidly and improved in its performance even more
quickly. The first concert was given in 1858, and the band proudly led
the procession when the School made its annual pilgrimage to Boston the
next year, 1859. This was probably the first public appearance of any
school band in the world.

There was little money available to spend on band equipment, but by
using suits of several different styles in a few odd shades, they
were fitted out with uniforms. New instruments had been obtained, and
each glistened like gold, although the horns, wobbling as the players
marched, pointed in various directions. Every proud bandsman carefully
donned his snowy white gloves before handling his instrument.

Although the band was only four years old when the Civil War began, the
director and sixteen former players enlisted as Musicians. Mr. Morse
returned from the War and completed a span of fifty years as director
of the band.

The high point in the band’s history, as well as the greatest event
in the lives of its members at that time, was playing at the Peace
Jubilee. In response to an invitation from Patrick Gilmore, the famous
band conductor, the Farm and Trades School Band played in his great
1,000-man band at the first Peace Jubilee at Boston in 1869. Ever
afterwards those boys boasted of having performed with this group of
bandsmen from at least five different countries.

The present bandmaster, Mr. Frank L. Warren, was chosen in 1923. A
thorough musician, he is exceptionally well-fitted for this office.
He directs several bands in the Boston area, is a member of various
musical organizations--among them, the U. S. Army-Navy Bandsmen’s
Association and the 101st Engineers’ Band. He inspires the school boys
with a genuine love of music and a real joy in playing. The Farm and
Trades School Band has throughout its years, won many honors at the
state and the New England school band contests and later, high ratings
at the Competition Festivals.

The popularity of the band has constantly increased. For instance,
out of a school enrollment of 82, there are 50 in the band. Various
nationalities are included in the membership--at one time, one player
was an American Indian lad named “Rainbow Red Canoe,” a great grandson
of the famous chief “Sitting Bull.”

Most boys who have begun their music study with the band make it a
hobby in later life, and many choose it as their lifetime profession.
Composers, arrangers and music publishers have come from this Farm
and Trades School Band, while many other former players have become
valued members of symphony orchestras, opera and theater orchestras and
nationally-famous concert bands.


A. R. McALLISTER

_The Pioneer Leader of School Bands_

The High School principal, hurrying out to lunch stopped at the foot of
the stairs and listened in astonishment.

“Horns and drums,” he muttered, “I’ll have to see what is going on down
here!”

He followed the sounds easily and through the rear door of the manual
training room saw a group of boys, seated on nail kegs and boxes,
playing various instruments. A stocky young man was busily directing
them.

The principal smiled and quickly turned away. “Mac has certainly
started something this time!” he said to himself. But not until years
later did he realize that he had seen in its very beginning, Joliet’s
famous School Band under its leader, who became the Dean of the School
Band movement. This was the commencement of the greatest wave of music
ever to sweep the country.

A. R. McAllister was born on a farm near Joliet, Illinois. As a very
small boy he was fond of making music. Seldom was he seen without a
cornstalk fiddle or an elder flute.

To the dismay of his thrifty Scotch father, Archie sold his pet pig
for eight dollars and immediately sent a request to a mail order house
for a cornet costing that exact sum. However, the elder McAllister was
pleased that his son sent a C.O.D. order. Evidently he was going to be
sure to get the worth of his money.

The boy tooted away faithfully and was soon able to play tunes. His
next thought was to teach other boys in the neighborhood and organize a
band. The group made good progress and had fun besides, although some
of the neighbors declared “That McAllister boy does nothing but fool
around with music and will never amount to anything.” But the first
year of its existence this new band entered a contest and won the first
prize--a music rack. The second year they again won first prize--this
time a five-dollar bill.

Then Arch grew restless. He wondered which to follow--business or
music? He loved music but he wanted to make money quickly, so he took
a course in business school and got a job as auditor of the street car
company. That failed to satisfy him. He sold his cornet and went “out
west” to a fruit ranch in Montana. There he worked into a different
line, woodworking, building and making things with his hands. He felt
he had a real talent for this sort of work and soon went back to
Chicago to teach manual training in a Jewish training school.

A few years later McAllister accepted a position as Manual Training
teacher in the High School in Joliet, Illinois. Here he seized upon an
opportunity to get back into music work. He rounded up twelve boys who
liked music but knew nothing at all about it. They gathered up a dozen
used instruments, and McAllister began to teach and train the High
School Band, which at first was looked upon solely as an aid to the
football team. Their lessons were given outside of school hours and for
some time McAllister received no extra salary.

The boys worked faithfully, their membership increased and their
ability improved, but no one knew much about them. In 1920 the Joliet
Rotary Club took McAllister and his band to Atlantic City to their
convention. There they attracted much attention.

When the first national school band contest was held in Chicago,
twenty-five bands took part in the affair sponsored by the Music
Instrument Manufacturers. The Joliet, Illinois Township Band (Grade
School) directed by A. R. McAllister, easily won first prize.

The Joliet Band continued to win first place in contests in 1925, 26,
27, and 1928. Then they were barred from entering to give other bands a
chance. But when they re-entered they came out first in each contest.

The Joliet High School Band after having won many state and national
contests was finally given an honor no other organization will ever
have: the _first_ national school band trophy ever awarded in the world.

Bandmaster McAllister took his band on many pleasurable concert trips,
but the outstanding, unforgettable jaunt was a whole week’s engagement
playing in Radio City Music Hall in New York in March, 1936. The Joliet
Band also played at the Metropolitan Opera House, in Philadelphia and
in Washington, D. C. on the steps of the East front of Capitol Building
where they were cheered by Congressmen and Senators.

Many honors came to McAllister also. He was elected the first President
of the National School Band Association, organized in 1926, and
served for eight years. He was president of the American Bandmasters’
Association, and prominent in every organization connected with school
music.

A. R. McAllister died September 30, 1944, loved and honored by many
thousands of people, young and old. He was an extremely modest man, yet
he had one of the most brilliant careers in the history of instrumental
music education in America’s public schools.

McAllister was not a University man; he never graduated from a music
school, never had a doctor’s nor a master’s degree. Yet he created one
of the greatest high school bands in the world and was known and loved
by millions of young Americans.

[Illustration]




_As We Go Marching On_


And so they have all marched--the military bands, Sousa, Gilmore,
Pryor, Conway, the town and community bands, and the college and school
bands. They have marched right into the hearts of the people, young and
old, rich or poor, from Maine to California.

“All these bands have something in common,” wrote Dr. Edwin Franko
Goldman. “They are manifestations of a popular musical culture which
finds in them an expression of something not provided by any other type
of concert organization. Most important, they are a form of local, or
regional, or national organization fulfilling a genuine community need
and serving a genuine community interest....

“The band has introduced many people to music--both listeners and
performers. A band plays for the masses with mixed tastes. It is close
to the people, bringing many into firsthand contact with live music.”

Bands are able to perform in outdoor concerts, football games, parades
and on many varied occasions. They stand or march when they play,
inspiring action. Informal, outdoor band concerts will always remain
great popular attractions for few concert halls are large enough to
accommodate all the people who want to hear live band music. Besides,
outdoor band concerts are free.

The United States is today’s greatest musical nation, and bands
have played a great part in developing and spreading the love and
understanding of music among young and old in this country. A band is a
strong music educational force; a school or college band has the widest
opportunity in the world to personally convey music to the people.

With the extensive program of concerts, radio and recording
engagements, dances, football pageants, as well as the many regular
functions in which the college bandsmen take part, a wealth of
opportunity is given a college student interested in gaining experience
in music.

In a more limited way this is true with high school bands. School
bands are constantly being required to play at many public affairs
in their community and school. And with ability to play in the band
there comes to each bandsman a sense of citizenship, of belonging to
an organization which is considered necessary to the success of public
enterprises, of pride and importance in having a part in civic affairs.

People who are qualified to know state that the number of town,
municipal, and industrial bands is decreasing, but it is gratifying
to learn that these same authorities have found that college and
school bands are rapidly increasing in all parts of the country. These
organizations are recognized developments of our American culture. A
national survey reveals that in 1951 there were 75,000 bands in the
United States. And there were fully 9,000,000 high school boys and
girls belonging to school bands.

The activities of the high school bands are unified by the National
High School Band Association; the musicians composing the Music
Educators’ National Conference exercise helpful supervision. The
school band is recognized as one of the greatest agencies for teaching
democracy and good citizenship, as well as inducing a nation-wide love
for music.

“Music,” says the _Preface_ to the 1940 _Resolutions_ of the Music
Educators’ National Conference, “is an essential factor in building a
cultured and happy people. It belongs to everyone.”

The shrill, noisy brass bands of early days have been supplanted by
fine symphonic bands. Master instrument makers have invented a variety
of new band instruments capable of producing many novel and artistic
effects. Gifted musicians are composing and arranging music especially
suited to these various instruments. The band has proved its worth
and earned its right to the large place which it now occupies in our
American way of life. A band is a necessary part of every community.

And just as the whole future of America is dependent upon the young
people of today, in like manner, the fate of the bands of tomorrow
depends upon the musical education and training received by the boys
and girls of this present time. Youth must go marching on.

Throughout the ages man has found music to be essential in voicing his
own innate sense of beauty. Music is not a thing apart from man: it is
the spiritualized expression of his finest and best inner self.

There is no one wholly unresponsive to the elevating appeal of music.
If only the right contacts and experiences are provided, every life can
find in music some answer to its fundamental need for aesthetic and
emotional outlet.

The Music Educators’ National Conference, at its national meeting held
at Los Angeles in 1940, in full acceptance of its responsibilities as
the representative and champion of progressive thought and practice in
music education, pledged its united efforts in behalf of a broad and
constructive program for music education for the youth of America. The
organization recommended that the following measures be taken in the
direction of general improvement:

  1. Provision in all the schools of our country, both urban and rural,
  for music experience and training for every child, in accordance with
  his interests and capacities.

  2. Continued effort to improve music teaching, and to provide
  adequate equipment.

  3. Carry-over of school music training into the musical, social
  and home life of the community, as a vital part of its cultural,
  recreational and leisure-time activities.

  4. Increased opportunities for adult education in music.

  5. Improvement of choir and congregational singing in the churches
  and Sunday schools; increased use of instrumental ensemble playing in
  connection with church activities.

  6. Encouragement and support of all worthwhile musical enterprises as
  desirable factors in making our country a better place in which to
  live.

At the 1951 national meeting of the Music Educators’ National
Conference, an optimistic view of the future of school music was
generally expressed.

[Illustration]




_Books, Magazines, and Newspapers Consulted--_


  Annals of Music in America by Henry C. Lahee. Boston, Mass.: Marshall
    Jones Company, 1922

  ARGOSY. Popular Publications, Inc., 205 East 42nd Street, New York,
    N. Y.

  Band At-ten-tion! by Mark H. Hindsley. Chicago, Illinois: Gamble
    Hinged Music Company, 1932

  Band on Parade, The, by Raymond F. Dvorak. New York: Carl Fischer,
    Inc., 1937

  Band’s Music, The, by Richard F. Goldman. New York: Pitman Publishing
    Corp., 1938

  _Christian Science Monitor, 1 Norway Street, Boston, Mass._

  College and University Bands; Their Organization and Administration,
    by La Verne Buckton. New York: Teachers College, Columbia
    University, 1929

  COLLIER’S. Crowell-Collier Publishing Company, 640 Fifth Avenue, New
    York, N. Y.

  Concert Band, The, by Richard F. Goldman. New York: Rinehart &
    Company, Inc., 1946

  Current Biography. H. W. Wilson Company, 950 University Avenue, New
    York, N. Y.

  Etude. Bryn Mawr, Penna.

  GOOD HOUSEKEEPING. Hearst Magazines, Inc., 57th Street & 8th Avenue,
    New York, N. Y.

  Gridiron Pageantry, by Charles B. Righter. New York: Carl Fischer,
    Inc., 1941

  “Here Comes the Band!” by Ray Giles. New York: Harper & Brothers, 1936

  History of American Music, The, by L. C. Elson. New York: The
    Macmillan Company, 1904

  History of Military Music in America, A, by William C. White. New
    York: The Exposition Press, 1945

  History of Public School Music in the United States, by Edward B.
    Birge. New York: Oliver Ditson Company, 1937

  History of the National Peace Jubilee and Great Musical Festival, by
    P. S. Gilmore. Published by the author, Boston, 1869

  HOBBIES. Camden, New Jersey (Merged into COLLECTORS’ JOURNAL,
    Milford, Conn.)

  HOLIDAY. Curtis Publishing Company, Independence Square,
    Philadelphia, Penna.

  How I Became a Cornetist, by Herbert L. Clarke. St. Louis, Missouri:
    J. L. Huber, 1934

  Instrumental Music in the Public Schools, by T. F. Norman.
    Philadelphia, Penna.: Presser Company, 1941

  INTERNATIONAL MUSICIAN, St. Louis, Missouri and Newark, New Jersey.

  JACOBS BAND MONTHLY, W. Jacobs, Boston, Mass.

  JACOBS ORCHESTRA MONTHLY, W. Jacobs, Boston, Mass.

  LIFE. Time, Inc., 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y.

  LITERARY DIGEST, New York, N. Y.

  Military Band, The, by George Miller. London: Novello & Company, Ltd.
    1912

  MODERN MUSIC, New York, N. Y.

  Monarchs of Minstrelsy from “Daddy” Rice to Date, by Edward LeRoy
    Rice. New York: Kenny Publishing Company, 1911

  MUSIC AND LETTERS, London, England

  MUSIC DEALER, New York, N. Y.

  MUSIC EDUCATORS’ JOURNAL, 64 E. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, Illinois

  MUSICIAN, 14 East 47th Street, New York, N. Y.

  MUSICAL OBSERVER, Boston, Mass.

  MUSIC COURIER. Music Periodicals Corp., 119 West 57th Street, New
    York, N. Y.

  Music in Industry, by Kenneth S. Clark. New York: National Bureau for
    the Advancement of Music, Inc., 1929

  MUSIC QUARTERLY, New York, N. Y.

  NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC. National Geographical Society, Washington, D. C.

  NEWSWEEK, New York, N. Y.

  _New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N. Y._

  NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE. New York Times, 229 W. 43rd Street, New
    York, N. Y.

  NEW YORKER, New York, N. Y.

  OUTLOOK. The Outlook Company, New York, N. Y.

  PRESTO MUSIC TIMES, Chicago, Illinois

  POPULAR MECHANICS. Popular Mechanics Company, 200 E. Ontario St.,
    Chicago, Ill.

  POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY. Popular Science Publishing Company, New
    York, N. Y.

  SATURDAY EVENING POST. Curtis Publishing Company, Independence
    Square, Philadelphia, Penna.

  SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE. Scholastic Corporation, 351 Fourth Avenue, New
    York, N. Y.

  SCHOOL MUSICIAN, Chicago, Illinois

  Success in Teaching School Orchestras and Bands, by Charles B.
    Righter. Minneapolis, Minn.: Paul A. Schmitt Music Company, 1945

  TIME. Time, Inc., 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y.

  TOP NOTES, East Stroudsburg, Penna. (Merged into MUSICAL DIGEST)

  TRAVEL. Travel Magazine, Inc., 115 West 45th Street, New York, N. Y.

  _Washington Evening Star, 1101 Penna. Avenue, N. W., Washington, D.
    C._

  _Washington Post, 1515 L Street, N. W., Washington, D. C._

  WOMAN’S HOME COMPANION. The Crowell-Collier Publishing Company, 640
    Fifth Avenue, New York, N. Y.




  The verse at the beginning of Chapter V is reprinted from “The
  History of The Salvation Army” by Robert Sandall by permission of the
  author and Thomas Nelson & Sons, Ltd., Edinburgh.

  [Illustration]




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

  Incorrect page numbers in the Table of Contents have been corrected.

  New original cover art included with this eBook is granted to the
    public domain.

  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GREAT BANDS OF AMERICA ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
The Project Gutenberg eBook of For the Good of the Team, by Ralph
Henry Barbour

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: For the Good of the Team

Author: Ralph Henry Barbour

Release Date: May 21, 2023 [eBook #70829]

Language: English

Produced by: Donald Cummings and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FOR THE GOOD OF THE
TEAM ***





                             FOR THE GOOD
                             OF THE TEAM




By RALPH HENRY BARBOUR


_Yardley Hall Series_

  FOURTH DOWN
  FORWARD PASS
  DOUBLE PLAY
  WINNING HIS Y
  GUARDING THE GOAL
  FOR YARDLEY
  AROUND THE END
  CHANGE SIGNALS


_Purple Pennant Series_

  THE LUCKY SEVENTH
  THE SECRET PLAY
  THE PURPLE PENNANT


_Hilton Series_

  THE HALF-BACK
  FOR THE HONOR OF THE SCHOOL
  CAPTAIN OF THE CREW


_Erskine Series_

  BEHIND THE LINE
  WEATHERBY’S INNING
  ON YOUR MARK


_The “Big Four” Series_

  FOUR IN CAMP
  FOUR AFOOT
  FOUR AFLOAT


_The Grafton Series_

  RIVALS FOR THE TEAM
  HITTING THE LINE
  WINNING HIS GAME


_North Bank Series_

  THREE BASE BENSON
  KICK FORMATION
  COXSWAIN OF THE EIGHT


_Books Not In Series_

  THE LOST DIRIGIBLE
  FOR THE FREEDOM OF THE SEAS
  KEEPING HIS COURSE
  THE BROTHER OF A HERO
  FINKLER’S FIELD
  DANFORTH PLAYS THE GAME
  THE ARRIVAL OF JIMPSON
  UNDER THE YANKEE ENSIGN
  BENTON’S VENTURE
  THE JUNIOR TROPHY
  THE NEW BOY AT HILLTOP
  THE SPIRIT OF THE SCHOOL
  THE PLAY THAT WON
  OVER TWO SEAS (With H. P. HOLT)
  FOR THE GOOD OF THE TEAM


D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, Publishers, New York




[Illustration: STUART SENT THE BALL TO BURNS ON A DIRECT PASS]




                             FOR THE GOOD
                              OF THE TEAM

                                  BY
                          RALPH HENRY BARBOUR

                 AUTHOR OF “THREE BASE BENSON,” “KICK
                    FORMATION,” “FOURTH DOWN,” ETC.


                            [Illustration]


                        D. APPLETON AND COMPANY
                      NEW YORK :: 1923 :: LONDON




                          COPYRIGHT, 1923, BY
                        D. APPLETON AND COMPANY


                PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA




                   CONTENTS


 CHAPTER                                  PAGE

      I. A HERO RETURNS                      1
     II. CAPTAIN AND COACH                  18
    III. A BOY ON CRUTCHES                  30
     IV. “ONLY THE CAPTAIN!”                45
      V. A CLASH OF AUTHORITY               60
     VI. DEFEAT                             77
    VII. THE ATH. FAC. TAKES A HAND         93
   VIII. A NEW LEADER IS CHOSEN            105
     IX. OUT OF A JOB                      118
      X. THE HANDICAPS                     134
     XI. THE LAST LAP                      147
    XII. NEIL INTERVENES                   160
   XIII. STUART GOES OUT FOR THE TEAM      170
    XIV. WANTED, A KICKER                  183
     XV. THE CONFERENCE                    197
    XVI. LE GETTE EXPLAINS                 212
   XVII. TASKER GOES OVER                  226
  XVIII. IN THE LAST QUARTER               242
    XIX. STUART SPEAKS HIS MIND            257
     XX. “FOR THE GOOD OF THE TEAM”        275




                             FOR THE GOOD
                             OF THE TEAM




                               CHAPTER I

                            A HERO RETURNS


Two boys met in the Grand Central Station in New York one warm
afternoon in late September and, greeting each other, passed hurriedly
toward the gate beyond which the Hartford Express waited. Each was
good-looking, well-built, alert and self-possessed. But a few months
separated their ages, although Jack Brewton had seen his eighteenth
birthday and Stuart Harven had not. In the train, their bags at their
feet, they plunged into conversation. While they had been close friends
at Manning School, they had not met during vacation, nor had they
corresponded. At seventeen and eighteen one is far too busy for letter
writing, and, fortunately, friendship doesn’t demand it. There was,
consequently, much to be said, and the journey to Safford was half
over before the subject of summer adventures had been exhausted. Then
Stuart gave the talk a new turn with the careless announcement:

“I had a letter from the new coach about a month ago.”

“Haynes?” asked Jack interestedly. “What did he have to say?”

“Oh, nothing much. Said he thought he ought to get in touch with me
and hoped I was having a pleasant vacation and all that. Suggested my
meeting him in New York and talking things over, but I couldn’t make
it. The date he set was just the time we were starting off on the
cruise.”

“Too bad,” murmured Jack.

“Oh, I don’t know. What’s the good of talk? There wasn’t anything to be
done until we got the team together. I hope to goodness he isn’t going
to be one of the talky kind: his letter looked that way: he wrote about
four pages, I guess. Said he hoped I was keeping in good condition
and wasn’t neglecting kicking.” Stuart chuckled. “I haven’t touched a
football but once since spring practice. Then we had a sort of a game
up at the camp one day. A lot of the college chaps were football men:
Means of Cornell, and Davis of Dartmouth, and five or six others. We
had quite a scrappy little game. Played two twenty-minute periods.
Of course the counselors won, but they had to work for it. I played
quarter and got off two dandy runs, one for nearly seventy yards.”

“You ought to have put in some practice, just the same, Stuart,” said
Jack disapprovingly. “It wouldn’t have done any harm.”

“Did you?”

“Yes, I’ve been at it pretty steadily for the last month.”

“Faithful old Fido!” laughed Stuart. “Well, I don’t believe in it. A
fellow comes back much fitter and more ready for work if he doesn’t
wear himself out during the summer. I don’t think it hurts you any, for
you’re a shark for work, and always were, but I get stale if I overdo
it. Bet you I’ll show more pep to-morrow than the fellows who have been
summer training.”

“Maybe,” answered Jack, smiling but unconvinced. “Still, pep isn’t
everything. I’ll bet you can’t kick five goals out of ten tries from
the thirty-yard line to-morrow.”

“What of it?” laughed Stuart. “I’ll be able to next week. Look here,
what’s the good of bringing the team back five days before term opens
if they’re going to know it all before they come? That’s what the early
session’s for, to get us back in shape.”

“We ought to be in shape when we get back,” answered Jack. “We can’t
afford to give Pearsall even one day’s start of us, Stuart.”

“Don’t you worry about Pearsall this year,” replied the other, smiling
and confident. “We’re going to do her up brown.”

“Hope so.”

“Sure to! At least, we will if Haynes turns out all right. I’m still
wishing, though, we’d gone after Corcoran.”

“What’s the use of wishing it?” asked Jack, with a shrug. “You know we
couldn’t have paid his price. Take my advice, old son: forget Corcoran
and make the best of ‘Hop’ Haynes. Anyhow, Stuart, don’t start out with
a prejudice toward him.”

“Oh, I’ve got nothing against the man. I dare say he will do well
enough. Still, you know yourself, Jack, he’s just a ‘small town’ coach:
never did anything big.”

“If he had Manning wouldn’t have got him,” replied Jack. “He put in
three successful years at Fisherville, though, and was assistant at
Erskine a year before that.”

“Fisherville doesn’t play a team unless she knows she can beat it. Any
one could coach Fisherville to win. Bet you I could myself!”

Jack smiled and shook his head. “You’re a great little quarterback,
Stuart, and you’re the youngest captain Manning has ever had, and all
that, but don’t ever try coaching, old son. You couldn’t do it.”

“How do you make that out?” demanded Stuart. “You don’t have to be a
wonder to coach a football team.”

“No, but you have to have one quality that you haven’t, Stuart,”
answered the other in good-humored raillery.

“What’s that?” asked Stuart suspiciously.

“Amenability,” replied Jack gravely.

“What’s amenability? You mean good nature? Rot!”

“Look it up when you get a chance,” laughed Jack. “Anyhow, you stick to
captaining.”

“I believe I’ve been insulted, but no matter. Say, I ran across a
couple of nice-looking plays this summer. They’re not new, of course,
but we’ve never used them and they might be good medicine for
Pearsall. Got a piece of paper? An old letter will do. That’s the
ticket!” Stuart produced a pencil and the two boys leaned their heads
close while it traced strange lines on the back of an envelope.

Half an hour later the friends parted, Stuart carrying his bag to Lacey
Hall and Jack taking his to Meigs. They were to meet later for supper
in the village; meals for the football candidates were to begin with
breakfast in Lyceum House to-morrow; and meanwhile there were trunks
to be unpacked. Stuart’s room, on the second floor of Lacey, had been
prepared for his occupancy. One of the two small beds was made up and
the accumulated dust of the summer had been removed. Stuart set his
bag on the table and looked about him. The room, with its gray papered
walls, its brown craftsman furniture, its two-tone blue rug and its
pictures and trophies, was surprisingly like home, and he gave a sigh
of satisfaction as he threw aside his coat and went to the end window.
The sun had traveled past, and when he raised the shade and the lower
sash a cool breeze entered, bringing with it a few dried ivy leaves
from the stone sill. Below him lay a narrow strip of grass between the
building and School Lane. The young maples that lined both sides of
the way――the lane had been cut through but four years ago――were still
green, but the leaves looked dry and tired, as though the hot summer
had been almost too much for them. Across the graveled thoroughfare,
seen from the window between the upper branches of the trees, was
Memorial Building, the dining hall, its buff sandstone front, with its
four tall columns, hot in the afternoon sunlight. Further to Stuart’s
left stood the library; beyond it, the tennis courts. Straight ahead,
the school grounds ended at an iron fence half hidden by shrubbery
and vines, and then came an open field that descended to the placid,
winding river. The new steel bridge over which High Street led was just
visible past the corner of Memorial. Beyond it, nestling ’neath tall
elms, spread the town. Two church spires, one slenderly conical and one
square and dignifiedly squatty, pierced the greenery with their white
forms, and now and then a weathered gray roof or a red-brown chimney
peeked forth.

Safford was like half a hundred other Connecticut towns, quiet, as
placid as the river that flowed around it and unvexed by the problems
that beset larger communities. Twice a day the express paused for
a moment at the little station and at four other times local trains
tarried on their way up and down the valley. There were no street
cars and, speaking comparatively, even automobiles were scarce.
Safford’s only claim to renown was Manning School; and there had been
occasions――perhaps there still are――when Safford’s inhabitants would
have been willing to worry along without such fame. The celebrations of
athletic victories occur only infrequently, however, and for the most
part the townsfolk had no cause for complaint, and were doubtless glad
enough of the presence of the big school across the river. I know the
storekeepers were, anyway.

Stuart’s trunk arrived before he had quite finished washing off the
dust of travel, and for nearly an hour after that he busied himself
unpacking, stowing his things methodically away in drawers or hanging
them neatly in the closet, in the latter process carefully taking up
no more than his half of the hooks. The occupant of the other bed and
proprietor of the second chiffonier would be along in a few days, and
there must be space for his belongings. Neil Orr came from Stuart’s
home city and represented the reason why Stuart was remaining in Lacey
through his upper middle year instead of moving to Meigs as was the
privilege, almost invariably taken advantage of, of the third-year
students. Neil was a lower middle class fellow, and since he must
remain in Lacey, Stuart had elected to remain with him. To his own
belief at least, Stuart had acted as guide and protector to Neil during
the previous year and he couldn’t conceive of Neil’s getting along
without him. Perhaps he exaggerated his usefulness to Neil somewhat,
but the motives that prompted him to forego life in the upper class
dormitory were wholly creditable.

It was still too early for supper when he had finished his task and
changed into a comfortable old suit, and, probably because Neil was
still in his thoughts, he went down and crossed the old campus to
Holton Hall. The northern half of the school property had become known
as the old campus when School Lane had been cut through. It held five
dormitories and Manning Hall, the latter accommodating the recitation
rooms, the assembly hall and the offices. Of the five dormitories,
Holton was the elder brother and stood back from the rest as though
keeping a fraternal watch on them. Stuart was not sure that his visit
would prove successful, for there still remained four days before the
faculty members were required to report, but when he came within sight
of the corner study which was his destination his doubts were removed.
The two end windows on the lower floor were wide open and the brown
silk sash curtains were pushed wide. Mr. Moffit, attired principally
in a pair of discolored gray flannel trousers and a running shirt, was
applying a piece of emery cloth to the head of a lofter when Stuart,
accepting the invitation to enter, pushed the study door wide. A golf
bag leaned against the morris chair at the instructor’s elbow, but it
went to the floor with a rattle and crash of its contents when Mr.
Moffit jumped up.

“Hel-lo, Harven!” he exclaimed in pleased surprise. “So we’re back
again! My, my, and all browned up like a berry! Well, I am glad to see
you, my boy!” He shook hands with a grip that made the visitor wince
and pushed the latter toward a chair. “You’ve found me in rather an
undignified moment, it seems. Suppose you take your own coat off and
lend me countenance. It’s been frightfully hot here to-day.”

“Hot everywhere, sir. New York was like an oven.”

“You came that way? Isn’t there a shorter route from Springfield?”

“Yes, but you have to change, sir. And I wired Jack Brewton to meet me
at the Grand Central. Been playing golf, sir?”

“Yes, quite a lot this summer. But it’s over with.” Mr. Moffit sighed.
“Harven, I’m more than ever convinced that the Destiny that shapes our
ends made a botch of it in my case. I ought to have been born with a
silver spoon. I’m naturally the laziest man on earth except as to one
thing. That’s golf. I’ll toil from sunup to pitch dark playing golf,
but anything else――especially the teaching of English――comes mighty
hard. And this fall it seems to me that I’m lazier than ever before. I
don’t want to go back into harness one earthly bit, my boy. I sigh for
wealth and slothfulness, for silken shirts and shaded porches. The gods
bestow their favors blunderingly.”

“You’d soon get tired of silk shirts and porches,” laughed Stuart. “I’m
sure I would. Want some help with those, sir?”

“Thanks, but this is the last. I’m putting them to bed for a nine
months’ sleep. Unless――” the instructor’s eyes brightened――“you play?
There’s a very fair links over at Harrington, and I could sneak in a
couple of hours in the morning.”

“I don’t, sir. Besides, football begins to-morrow and I suppose we’ll
have two sessions a day until Wednesday.”

“That’s why you’re back. I’d forgotten.” Mr. Moffit slipped the lofter
into the bag with a sigh. “That reminds me that I met your new coach
this forenoon. He seems a very pleasant, affable sort, but he doesn’t
play golf. Have you met him yet?”

“No, sir. Do you know where he’s staying?”

“He told me, but I’ve forgotten. I’m afraid I lost interest when I
found he was not a golfer. Somewhere in the village, of course.”

“I thought of looking him up this evening, but if I don’t know where
he’s living I suppose I can’t do it.”

“He’s probably taking his meals at the hotel. I fancy you’d get a word
of him there, Harven.”

“Yes, sir, but there’s no hurry. I’ll see him in the morning. Are there
many of the team back, do you know?”

“I don’t. You’re the first chap I’ve seen. No one’s come yet, except
Mr. Wallace and me, so far as I know. Doctor Gurley’s back, of course.
I took dinner with him last evening. Vacation appears to have toned him
up remarkably. So it has you, my boy. Have a pleasant summer?”

“Dandy, sir! You’re looking awfully fit, too.”

“I suppose so. Yes, I’m feeling fairly rugged, thanks, but――but not at
all ambitious! I purposely came back a few days ahead to do some work.
I’ve got a new course to map out, for one thing. But all I’ve done so
far is clean five golf clubs!” And Mr. Moffit looked with humorous
sadness at the bag beside him.

Stuart laughed. “Don’t you worry, sir. You’ll soon be in form again and
making things hard for us as usual.”

Mr. Moffit smiled and shook his head. “I trust that you are right, but
to-day there’s no iron in my make-up. I’m absolutely out of character
and the sorriest theme ever handed in by a junior couldn’t move me to
wrath! Well, you’ve come back to a pretty stiff task, my boy, haven’t
you? Do you know, I’m not certain that I wouldn’t rather have my own
job than yours. If I make mistakes I can remedy them or I can gloss
them over, but if you make them they’ll stand out on the football
season like so many sore thumbs, and you won’t have time to remedy
them. A bit awed by the responsibility, are you?”

Stuart shook his head smilingly. “No, sir, I don’t think so. Of course,
it’s going to take some work, but we’ve got a good crowd to start with.
If Mr. Haynes knows football as he’s supposed to, things will run along
all right, I guess.”

“The confidence of youth is a beautiful thing,” murmured the other.
“Well, I sincerely hope that things will run along all right and I
wish you the best luck in the world. And that means a successful
season crowned by a glorious victory over Pearsall. I’ll be watching
with a great deal of interest how the youngest captain ever elected
here performs his task, my boy. I hope, though, you won’t start out
overconfident. I’ve been here twelve years and overconfidence at one
stage or another of the season has lost more games for us than any
other one factor. Heed the words of age and experience, Harven, and
don’t write the answer until you’ve worked out the proposition.”

“Oh, I’m not cocksure,” laughed Stuart. “I’m confident that we can
win, but I realize that we’ve got to work every minute, and work hard.
By the way, sir, what does amenability mean? Jack told me that was a
quality I didn’t have.”

“Amenability?” repeated the instructor. “It means several things. For
one, it means the quality of being open-minded, of willingness to be
governed. We speak of a person as being amenable to reason, which
usually means that the person has taken our advice, or, at least,
listened to it.”

“Sounds as though he was calling me pigheaded,” said Stuart.

“Hardly as bad as that,” laughed the other; “he was probably trying to
convey the idea, and convey it as politely as possible, that you are
likely to rely too implicitly on your own judgment and are slightly
contemptuous of others’. Isn’t that more likely to be it?”

“Then it means cocksure,” grunted Stuart. “I don’t think I am. Do you,
sir?”

Mr. Moffit smiled, his blue eyes twinkling. “You and I have been pretty
good friends for two years, Harven,” he answered, “and we’ll probably
remain so as long as we don’t ask each other questions like that.”

Stuart grinned. “But seriously, Mr. Moffit, am I like he says? I don’t
mean to be.”

“I’m sure you don’t, my boy. To be frank, there’s something in
Brewton’s indictment, I fancy, but not enough to trouble about.
I’d prefer to call it self-dependence, which, up to a point, is an
admirable attribute of youth.”

“Well, he’s always getting off something like that,” said Stuart. “I
don’t mind him.”

“I wouldn’t. I’d just make certain that his charge is incorrect,
Harven.”

“Yes, sir.” Then: “Gosh, I was almost forgetting what I came to see you
about! You know Neil Orr, Mr. Moffit. He’s eligible for a society this
year, and I’d like mightily to get him into Lyceum. I’m pretty sure he
can make Manning if he wants to, but I’d rather have him with us, and I
guess he’d rather, too.”

“Orr is a splendid fellow in my judgment,” answered Mr. Moffit, “and
I’d be glad to have him in Lyceum, but you know, Harven, I’m only the
faculty director and have no vote.”

“Yes, sir, I know that, but I thought you might speak a good word for
him when the time comes. I’m going to put him up right off.”

“Gladly, if my opinion is asked, but I can’t promise more than that,
my boy. You wouldn’t want me to, I’m sure.”

“No, sir, of course not.” Stuart agreed, but not very fervently. After
a moment he added, “I think some of the fellows won’t want him on
account of his being like he is, and I don’t think that’s fair.”

“I doubt that,” answered the instructor. “I can’t imagine any of our
fellows objecting to Orr on account of physical――ah――disabilities,
Harven. I’d dislike to think it was so.”

“Maybe I’m wrong,” said Stuart. “Only, something was said last spring
that made me think that way. Well, I must be off to supper. Jack is
probably as mad as a hornet by this time. Good-by, sir.”

“Good-by, Harven. Very glad to have seen you again. Drop in some
evening before term starts, and bring Brewton along, won’t you?”




                              CHAPTER II

                           CAPTAIN AND COACH


Stuart didn’t look for Mr. Haynes that evening. Instead, after supper
in Safford’s only restaurant, he and Jack, together with three other
early arrivals, went to the moving picture theater, which, like the Old
Elm Café, was the sole representative of its kind in Safford. Stuart
expected to meet the coach the next morning at breakfast, but the
latter failed to show up. Pending the opening of Memorial, meals were
served to the football players in the Lyceum House. This was a small
cottage situated across the Principal’s Walk at the rear of Holton. In
early days it had been used as a dormitory, as had a similar structure
in the corner of the new campus. Later, the rooming facilities had been
increased by the building of Sawyer and Byers Halls, the two cottages
had been given over to the school societies, the Lyceum and Manning.
The Lyceum House had four bedrooms on the upper floor, and living
room, dining room and kitchen below. This morning the dining room was
crowded when Stuart arrived. Nineteen fellows had answered the summons
to pre-season practice, while the table seated but twelve. Fortunately,
all of them did not come at the same time. As it was, Stuart made the
fourth in the waiting line. His appearance was the signal for loud and
hearty greetings, and there was much hand-shaking. Jack Brewton was
already there and promised Stuart his place at table as soon as he “got
outside a couple more eggs.”

Most of the returning players on last year’s first team were on hand:
burly, red-haired Joe Cutts, the center; Leo Burns, square-headed and
sandy-complexioned, as hard-fisted as he was soft-hearted, one of the
best halfbacks in recent years; “Howdy” Tasker, big and gray-eyed and
handsome, almost certain of the fullback position; Millard Wheaton,
short but sturdy, pink-cheeked and blue-eyed, who meant to give Stuart
a hard battle for quarterback supremacy; and others besides. Tom
Muirgart, commonly known as “Mudguard,” yielded his chair to Stuart
while Jack was still toying with his second helping of poached eggs,
and Stuart deluged his oatmeal with milk and sprinkled it with sugar,
and pitched in. “Whitey,” general factotum of the establishment, and
as black a darkey as ever toiled in a southern cotton field, hurried
back and forth in the seemingly hopeless endeavor to supply the wants
of the eaters. Oatmeal, bacon, eggs, stewed peaches, toast, coffee,
milk disappeared as if by magic, and pathetic plaints filled the air
constantly: “Oh, Whitey! Got any more bacon?” “Whitey, bring some more
milk, will you?” “Coffee, Whitey; and fill her up this time!” “Bring
me two, three eggs, Whitey; and some toast!” “A-a-ay, Whitey! I’m
starving! Get a move on, will you?”

At Stuart’s left a pleasant-faced, brown-eyed youth asked: “Have you
seen the coach? He was asking for you last night.”

“No, what’s he like, Billy? I thought he’d be here this morning.”

“Rather a nice sort. Rather smallish. Looks keen, though.”

“Who’s that?” asked Joe Cutts from across the board. “Mr. Haynes? Quite
a peppy boy, I’ll bet! He isn’t big, but he’s got a bad eye, son. He’ll
have us jumping for fair!”

“If he can make you jump he’ll be going some,” laughed Billy
Littlefield. Joe smiled tolerantly and landed a piece of toast
on Billy’s nose. Wallace Towne, slipping into a vacated chair and
absent-mindedly annexing Howdy Tasker’s glass of milk, joined in with:

“I hear there isn’t going to be any training table this year.”

“Where do you get that stuff?” asked Stuart pityingly.

“Coach. He doesn’t believe in ’em. He told me so yesterday. Came down
on the train with him. Says all we need is plenty of plain food and no
coddling. Told him I didn’t care how plain it was if it was plenty.”

Stuart frowned. “That’s nonsense,” he declared. “We’ve always had
training tables here, and I guess we’ll continue to.”

“All right. You tell ’em. Whitey, for the love of Mike, feed me! All
I’ve had’s a glass of milk.”

“Yes, and it was mine,” observed Howdy. “Feed the brute, Whitey.”

“Guess the new chap’s got a lot of revolutionary ideas,” went on
Wallace. “Said a mouthful about straight football. Hates stunt plays, I
guess. Strong on fundamentals, too. So am I. We agreed perfectly. Made
a big hit with him.”

“You would,” said Jack scathingly. “You’d agree with any one, you old
sycophant.”

“What’s that?” asked Wallace untroubledly. “An elephant’s little boy? I
deny it. You’re thinking of Joe.”

“I’ve seen his sort before,” said Stuart. “They start out with the
idea of changing everything, but they soon get over it.” He smiled
patiently. “That straight football guff’s mighty old stuff. It won’t
win games to-day. He’ll get over it. Got any more eggs, Whitey?”

Reaching the field at half-past ten――a few minutes beyond that time, as
a matter of fact, but if the captain can’t be late, who can?――Stuart
concluded at first glance that Mr. Haynes had again failed to put
in an appearance, and he wasn’t altogether displeased. This new
coach seemed to be acting rather cocky, Stuart thought, and being
late to practice might tone down some of his assurance. But a second
look showed a stranger there. The fact that he was in togs quite as
disreputable as any being worn there had disguised him. He was talking
to Miles Whittier, the assistant manager, when Stuart made himself
known. Mr. Haynes shook hands cordially, but, Stuart thought, without
as much empressement as the situation called for. While they talked
Stuart studied the other and was conscious of a slight feeling of
disappointment. Perhaps the description he had heard was to blame.
At all events, the coach was much more of a “regular fellow” than
Stuart had unconsciously pictured him. He was small, perhaps, but
the fact didn’t impress you greatly because he was remarkably well
built. He was younger than Stuart had suspected, too; surely not more
than twenty-six. He was good looking, but the good looks were more a
matter of expression than of features, for the latter were irregular.
There was a short nose and a rather long upper lip, a firm mouth and a
square jaw, keen dark-brown eyes and a wide forehead under hair that
appeared to have a suspicion of red in it. He had a pleasant smile and
an agreeable voice, and yet Stuart somehow felt a trifle uncomfortable
while they conversed. Perhaps it was the penetrative quality of the
straight, unwavering regard of the coach that was responsible.

For Alan Haynes was doing a little studying, too. He wanted very much
to learn what sort of a youth this was with whom he was to work. What
conclusions he reached I do not know. He saw, however, a straight,
well-made boy of a trifle more than normal height and weight for his
years, with the good looks of regular features and perfect health. I
doubt if he read any antagonism, for I don’t think that Stuart was
conscious of any, but I think he surmised that behind the blue-gray
eyes there lay a touch of arrogance, and perhaps the corners of the
pleasantly-smiling mouth hinted that its owner was self-willed. Maybe
because of such surmises, the coach paid the most respectful deference
to Stuart’s words, and the latter mentally concluded that Wallace
Towne’s characterization of the new coach had been overdrawn. Probably,
he thought, the other had talked sort of big to impress Wallace. There
was no harm in that just so long as he didn’t try it on him!

“We’d better get together this evening, Harven,” the coach was saying,
“and talk things over. Suppose I drop in at your room? I haven’t found
quarters yet, and my room at the hotel is just a box.”

“Suits me, Mr. Haynes. I’m in Lacey, the second dormitory on the Lane;
Number 12; one flight. How about eight o’clock?”

“Perfect. Well, shall we get them started?”

After practice the coach had company on the way back to the village.
“The Laird” was taking a dozen or so pairs of football shoes to the
repair shop. He had them tied together by the lacings and slung over
his shoulder as the coach fell into step beside him. His real name was
Angus McCranie and he looked as Scotch as his name sounded. It was
always somewhat of a disappointment, though, to hear The Laird speak,
for it was only in moments of excitement that his native burr was used.
He had been trainer at Manning for nearly a dozen years and had become
as much a part of the institution as Manning Hall or Old Jarratt,
the Greek and Latin professor, or even Doctor Gurley himself. He was
short and leanly muscular, with grizzled hair and pale blue eyes that
shone startlingly bright from under thick tufts of brows and from a
seamed face that, summer or winter, was always the color of a well-worn
saddle. In age, The Laird was, by his own confession, “upwards of
thirty.” The register in the little town of his birth would have proved
him well over forty. But age was of small importance in his case. He
was still as spry, to all appearances, as he had been a dozen years
since; and another score of years would make little difference.

“And what did you think of the lads, sir?” asked The Laird, as they
took the turn of High Street near Manning Society House.

“Excellent,” answered the coach promptly and emphatically. “A fine
looking lot, I call them. What is your opinion of this year’s material,
Mr. McCranie?”

The Laird produced a briar pipe and began to fill it. “About average,
sir. Mr. Haynes, the more I see of the lads, sir, the more settled I
become as to one conviction, which is that you can’t ever tell what’s
in a pudding till you open the bag.”

“Meaning,” responded the other, “that good-looking bodies don’t always
land first over the hurdles.”

“Exactly, sir. I’ve seen fine, upstanding lads licked by runts in my
time, and I’ve seen promising teams just fairly fall to pieces during
a season. Man, it’s not the shape of a lad’s body, or the muscles that
play under his skin that counts. It’s what’s on the inside. It’s the
spirit of him!”

“True,” assented Mr. Haynes.

“And that’s why, sir, when they say to me ‘What do you think of the
team this year,’ or the squad, maybe, I tell them the same thing. ‘Wait
till they’ve got their first black eye,’ I say, ‘and then ask me!’”

Mr. Haynes nodded gravely. “That’s what brings out the spirit,” he
replied. He paused midway of the bridge and looked down into the slowly
moving stream. “Any fish in this river?” he asked.

The Laird leaned an elbow on the railing, blew a cloud of smoke into
the sunlight and shook his head sadly. “There used to be, sir. I’ve
caught ten-inch trout further up. But three years ago they built a mill
at the falls and now you’ll get nothing saving a shiner or two. It’s a
shame, it is so!”

“Too bad! Ten inches, eh? That’s nice fishing. Flies or worms, Mr.
McCranie?”

“Well, I’ll tell you the truth, sir,” chuckled the trainer. “I’m as
prideful an angler as any, Mr. Haynes, but as the Good Book says, pride
goeth before the Falls. ’Twas worms I used.”

Further on Mr. Haynes said: “Captain Harven is rather a brilliant
player, I understand, Mr. McCranie.”

“You’re right, sir. ’Twas he won the Pearsall game last fall. A very
clever lad, Mr. Haynes. One of the finest quarters we’ve ever had here.
And a grand runner. ’Twas his getting away for nearly sixty yards that
brought us the victory. After that he could have been president if the
lads could have made him such. They did the best they might, and,
in spite of his being only a third-class boy this year, elected him
captain.”

“A steady player?” inquired the coach casually.

The Laird shot a quick, keen glance at him. “You’re fair observing,
sir. I’ll not say the lad’s a steady player, for he’s not, but you’ll
be forgiving him that for the way he plays when he’s at his best.
He’s high-strung like, with a wee bit of temper, but a fine lad for
all, sir. There’s two kinds. There’s them that’s always reliable. You
know beforehand what they’ll time at every lap. They’re grand, but
there’s never a surprise in them, sir. Their time to-day is their
time to-morrow, barring an accident. Then there’s the other sort.
To-day you’ll click them one time, to-morrow another. You never know
for certain what they’ll do. But when the time comes they’re like
thoroughbred horses, Mr. Haynes. A touch of the spur and they tear
loose, sir, and naught can head them. Maybe they’ll drop, past the
line, but they’ll win!”

“That sort requires careful handling,” mused the coach.

“Man, you speak true! Haven’t I learned it? But they’re worth the
trouble, sir.”

“Well, I’ll stop here,” said Mr. Haynes as they reached the hotel. “I
hope you and I will get along splendidly, Mr. McCranie. I shall look to
you for a lot of advice, for I’m pretty much of a stranger yet.”

“We’ll get along grand, sir,” replied the trainer heartily, “and I’m
not denying there’s things I can tell you, for I’m an old dog here. But
I’ll be asking you drop the ‘Mister,’ sir. McCranie’s my name, or Angus
if you like it better. The lads call me The Laird, and that’s a name
I’m fair proud of, Mr. Haynes, for they’d never have given it me if I’d
not come by it rightly.”

“Very well, McCranie. And my name is Haynes, also without the ‘Mister.’”

“It is now,” replied the trainer, with a chuckle, “but I’m thinking
that when we’re better acquainted ’twill be just ‘Coach’!”




                              CHAPTER III

                           A BOY ON CRUTCHES


Two workouts that day, although each was brief, left Stuart’s body
rather lame, for, while he had led a mildly strenuous life in camp and
at sea during the last three months, some of the muscles brought into
play in football practice were decidedly flabby. At supper that first
evening, although he hid his twinges, the fact that he appeared to be
the only one of the squad inconvenienced by the day’s activities caused
him to acknowledge to himself that there might be something in summer
training after all!

He prepared for the conference with Coach Haynes by determining to be
rather on his dignity, telling himself that, in the interest of future
harmony, it would be well to deal with the other with a firm hand, to
let him understand right at the start that revolutionary changes in the
conduct of the team or the campaign would not be welcomed. There was,
for instance, the coach’s plan of doing away with the training table,
as silly an idea as Stuart had ever heard of! Stern measures now might
prevent later trouble, the captain reflected.

The coach, however, appeared in a most conciliatory mood, paid
respectful attention to Stuart’s ideas and failed to show the cloven
hoof at all. On several occasions Stuart forgot his dignity and, to his
later annoyance, found himself laughing heartily. They made excellent
progress. Some of the coach’s notions didn’t coincide with Stuart’s,
but he was so far from insistent, so evidently open to conviction, that
for the most part the captain let them pass unchallenged. After all,
Mr. Haynes had no more to say in favor of a thorough grounding of the
team in the fundamentals than Stuart knew to be tenable. Nor, though
he certainly showed a leaning toward the old-style football, did he
asperse the newer and trickier plays. He found some fault with the
schedule, but there Stuart was at one with him, for undoubtedly the
playing of Walsenburg as early as the middle of October was a mistake.
Stuart explained that Walsenburg had refused a later date and that,
rather than lose the benefit to be had from a game with an opponent
of Walsenburg’s mettle, it had been decided to take her on in early
season, slipping Williston down the schedule to the Saturday before
Pearsall.

“We must just make up our minds to a defeat on October 16, then,”
replied the coach smilingly.

“I’m not so sure, sir,” said Stuart. “We’ve got quite a bunch of
veterans this year and I guess we’ll be able to squeeze through with no
worse than a tie. Walsenburg won’t be running very strong herself at
that time.”

“Those big schools start out stronger than we do,” said the coach. “We
won’t trouble about it, though. Sometimes, I think, a trimming isn’t
bad medicine for a team along in the early season. It’s likely to cure
overconfidence.”

“Yes, but we rather hate to get licked here at Manning,” demurred
Stuart, frowning. “And Walsenburg hasn’t beaten us but once in four
years. I――I don’t think the fellows would take very kindly to it, sir.”

“Hatred of defeat is a credited aversion, Harven, but it isn’t always
wise to win. Sometimes the cost is too great. I never like to bring a
team along too fast in October. Usually you pay for it later. Well, we
can deal with the Walsenburg game when it comes. Tell me about Lansing
High School. That comes first, doesn’t it? Yes, well, what do they
usually do?”

Afterwards they discussed the players. Mr. Haynes seemed particularly
anxious to learn about the linemen. “We’re strong at the center, you
say?” he asked. “‘Got veterans there,’ have we?”

“Yes, sir, and corkers! Cutts, the big red-haired fellow, you know;
and Beeman and Towne for guards. And we’re fixed for tackles, too,
Mr. Haynes. Jack Brewton’s one of the best in the business, and Ned
Thurston’s nearly as good. ‘Thirsty’s’ been playing tackle two years
already. Jack was in every game but one last season and he’s a whale.”

“Sounds good. I liked the looks of Brewton immensely. He’s the ideal
build for tackle. Cutts seemed a trifle heavy for a center, though. But
perhaps he’s a bit overweight. I have a weakness for fast men in the
center, Harven.”

“Well, Joe isn’t so slow, and I guess he’s due to drop eight or ten
pounds in the next week. You’ll like him when you see him work, sir.”

The subject of the abolishment of the training table was not introduced
by the coach and so it didn’t come up for discussion. After the other
had taken his departure, Stuart rehearsed the evening and uneasily
came to the conclusion that so far as firmness was concerned he had not
been an overwhelming success. Still, there hadn’t been much chance for
firmness. He consoled himself with the promise to maintain a watchful
eye on the coach and be on guard against that gentleman’s smooth
diplomacy.

Practice went very well. Other candidates showed up day by day, and
on Sunday, Fred Locker, the manager, returned. Stuart was glad to see
him, for Fred was a hard-working, invaluable chap and, moreover, a firm
adherent of Stuart’s; and now and then the latter felt dimly that,
should it ever come to a show-down between him and the new coach, he
would need all the backing he could get. There was no doubt that Mr.
Haynes had found much favor with the football squad. There was constant
proof of it. They had already conferred a nickname on him and, save to
his face, he was called “Hop,” that being a favorite ejaculation of his
used on all sorts of occasions. He didn’t join the players at meals in
Lyceum House, but none seemed to feel himself affronted, although Mr.
Craig, the former coach, had always presided at the head of the table.
Mr. Haynes had found quarters just across the river, convenient to the
school, and on Sunday evening Stuart and Fred Locker and The Laird met
there and went very thoroughly into many questions.

The fall term began Tuesday, and on Monday the influx of returning
students began. Rumor had it that the school was to be filled this
year, which meant an enrollment of three hundred and fifty. Not since
the opening of Byers, the latest of the new dormitories, had the school
held a full quota, and the report was pleasing to Stuart, among others,
since, theoretically at least, the more students there were the more
football players there would be. He hoped that among the new fellows
entering the senior or upper middle classes there would be a few
experienced ones, perhaps even a star or two. To anticipate a trifle,
however, Stuart’s hope proved vain, for among the newcomers there was
but one fellow of first team caliber. Haley Leonard, entering the
upper middle class, had weight and a year’s experience behind him and,
after being miscast for part of the season in a rushline position, was
relegated to the backfield and made good as fullback.

On Tuesday afternoon, one of the numerous carriages that rattled to
and fro between the station and the school that day, stopped in front
of Lacey Hall and three boys emerged. Two of them hustled forth,
paid the driver and were quickly swallowed up in the entrance to the
dormitory. But the third member of the trio alighted more slowly, and
it is with this third youth that we have to do. First the end of a
pair of crutches came into sight. Then, the rubbered tips secure on
the pavement, a boy of sixteen swung himself nimbly out. Seen without
his crutches, there was nothing in his appearance to suggest physical
disability. He looked to be normally strong and healthy, with the usual
number of arms and legs, a well-developed torso, and a good-looking,
clean-cut countenance wherein a pair of very deep blue eyes constituted
the most attractive feature. Settling with the driver, he accepted the
bag which the latter handed to him and, with surprising dexterity, took
himself and bag across the walk and up the steps. Once inside, however,
his progress became slower, for the steep stone stairway presented
difficulties when a suitcase hung against the right-hand crutch. Had
any one appeared he would have given over his burden, but as it was he
made the ascent alone, and, at last gaining the second floor, swung
himself along more quickly than another would have walked to the portal
of Number 12. Inside the room the expression of pleasure faded from
his face, for there was no one there to greet him. Setting down his
bag, he looked at his watch and understood.

“Practice,” he muttered. “I might have remembered.” The qualm of
disappointment vanished and, abandoning one of his crutches, he set
about the unpacking of his suit case. From bag to chiffonier, closet
and table he went quickly and efficiently, sometimes throwing his full
weight on the remaining crutch, sometimes placing an aiding hand on
table or chair back or bedstead. Presently, since his trunk was still
to arrive, his task was completed and he seated himself in a chair
that faced the south window, laying the crutch beside him. It would
have taken keen observation then to have suspected anything wrong with
the apparently sound limbs stretched before him, yet the truth is that
never in all his life had they once sustained his full weight. Place
Neil Orr in the water and he could swim like a fish, but ashore and
minus his crutches he was as helpless as a crawling baby. Perhaps had
he once had the full use of his legs he would have minded the lack of
it a great deal, but as it was, while he often envied others their
ability to walk and run and take part in athletics, he was quite
contented with his lot.

Perhaps the Lord had been fully as kind to Neil as to seemingly more
fortunate youths, for while Neil had been denied the usual means of
locomotion he had been blessed with a happy disposition; and were I
forced to make choice of the two gifts I’d never hesitate in choosing
the happy disposition. You are not to suppose that Neil was one of
those objectionably cheerful idiots who, when you pound your thumb
with a hammer under the mistaken idea that you’re hitting a nailhead,
smilingly reminds you, while you dance around with your thumb in your
mouth, that it would have been much worse had you been using an ax,
and that “it will be all the same ten years from now.” A sense of
proportion must accompany a happy disposition if the latter is to be
of use, and in Neil’s case it did. He also had a nice sense of humor
and a kindliness of heart that won him friends everywhere. Among those
who knew Neil only by sight there were probably some who wondered that
Stuart Harven should forgo the privilege of spending his upper middle
year in the greater comfort of Meigs Hall in order to remain with the
younger boy, but those who were acquainted with the latter didn’t
wonder at all. Jack Brewton, close friend of both, smiled to himself
when Stuart explained that he had decided to stay on in Lacey because
it didn’t seem fair to Neil not to. Stuart honestly thought that he was
conferring a benefit, but Jack knew that he was receiving it!

Stuart and Neil had been friendly acquaintances before coming to
Manning. Back home, in Springfield, they had gone to school together,
been of the same “crowd” and done the same things. Although they were
nearly of an age, Stuart was the senior by four months――Neil had always
been one year behind the other in school, owing to the fact that Stuart
possessed a faculty for, as he phrased it, “hitting the high places”
in his studies. Teachers shook their heads over that faculty. They
knew perfectly well that Stuart was, to make use of another convenient
phrase, “beating the game,” but there was nothing they could do about
it. He got high marks, even though his instructors were convinced that
he knew far less of the subjects than did many boys who were marked
much lower, and there was nothing for it but to pass him. Some did it
sadly, with earnest exhortations to more serious and thorough work,
others did it quite as grudgingly but with a secret envy for a quality
not possessed by their plodding, slow-going minds. Once interested in
a course, Stuart could fairly “eat it up,” but the trouble was that few
courses interested him, and even during his two years at Manning――he
had entered the lower middle class――he had continued to rely on his
uncanny ability to learn just enough and no more than was necessary
to keep him in good standing. Since the classes were larger here, he
managed to fool many of the instructors and even gain a reputation for
brilliancy, which reputation helped him to go on fooling them. Among
the few who were not deceived was the English instructor, Mr. Moffit.
Mr. Moffit――Miss Muffit the boys called him――said one day, half in fun,
half in earnest: “Harven, you’re a smart chap, but your smartness is
the Devil’s kind, and some day you may regret it. A juggler may toss up
a glass bowl and a silk hat and a billiard cue ninety-nine times and
catch the hat on his head, the cue on his chin and the bowl on the cue.
But the hundredth time something goes wrong and there’s an awful smash.
Better watch out for the hundredth time, my boy!” To which Stuart
had replied apologetically: “Maybe I don’t go into things as hard as
I should, sir, but there’s lots of time yet. You wait till I get to
college!”

Neil didn’t have Stuart’s gift, fortunately or unfortunately, as you
choose to view it, and he worked much harder for no better surface
results. He regarded his friend’s method with secret doubt but never
criticized it. When he reached Manning, a year after Stuart, it seemed
quite natural that they should take a room together. Neil admired and
liked Stuart for the qualities that attracted other fellows, and,
besides, for his athleticism. Even in the early school days Stuart had
been a leader in games of all sorts. Stuart was as willing as Neil to
join forces. He liked the other boy immensely, and was sorry for him,
although there was something in Neil’s attitude that prohibited pity,
and felt that it would be a friendly act to look after him and see
that his physical disability didn’t act as a handicap. They had spent
a year together in the corner room in Lacey and everything had gone
wonderfully. You couldn’t quarrel with Neil if you wanted to because he
simply wouldn’t have it. If you got nasty Neil merely retired within
his undisturbed self and waited for you to get over your mood. Then he
went on again as if nothing had happened. There might have been rows
aplenty had Neil desired them, for, while Stuart wasn’t quarrelsome,
he was fond of his own opinions and impatient of others’. But Neil
didn’t consider his views or any one else’s views of much importance,
certainly not important enough to become ruffled over! What had begun
as mutual respect and liking had grown within one school year to
something much deeper and stronger, though, boylike, neither would have
cared to give a name to it.

The shadows were growing long on the campus when Stuart returned to No.
12. The greetings exchanged were almost casual, but the handclasp was
hard and the faces of both boys showed their pleasure.

“I’m beastly sorry I couldn’t meet you, Neil,” said Stuart, “but I
couldn’t cut practice to-day. How long have you been here?”

“Perhaps an hour. I unpacked my bag and have been waiting for my trunk.
There’s some of your laundry in it, by the way. Your mother sent it
over yesterday and asked me to bring it along.”

“Thanks. Well, how are you, anyway?”

“Fine,” smiled Neil. “Don’t I look fairly healthy?”

“I’ll say you do. And you’ve got a corking tan. Where’d you get it?”

“I was on the river a good deal. You aren’t exactly pallid yourself,
you know.”

“I know. Hot, isn’t it? Haynes gave us nearly two hours to-day, drat
him!”

“Tell me about him, Stuart. What’s he like?”

“All right, I guess. Rather nice-looking chap. Pleasant and all that.”

“I’m glad,” said Neil. “I hope you’re going to get on together all
right.”

Stuart frowned slightly. “Why shouldn’t we? Gee, you talk as if I
didn’t usually get on with folks!”

“I didn’t mean to,” replied the other. “What’s the news? Who’s back?
How’s Jack?”

“Jack’s all right. Most of the fellows we know are here, I guess. There
isn’t much news though. We’ve put in four days of hard practice, two
sessions daily, and things look pretty good. We’ve got a corking lot of
fellows to start with. If Haynes doesn’t develop too many fool notions
I guess we’ll have a record season.”

“I hope so. I’d hate horribly to have Pearsall beat us this year, when
you’re captain. What do you mean by fool notions, Stuart? Is the new
coach notional?”

“Sort of.” Stuart frowned again. “Most of it’s just talk, though, I
guess.”

“Do the fellows like him?”

“Yes. They won’t, though, if he keeps on working them as hard as he
did Saturday and to-day. By the way, I’m putting you up for Lyceum
to-morrow, Neil, so you’d better get ready to ride the goat.”

Neil smiled. “Thanks. I’ll practice on the footboard of the bed.”

“I told you so you could turn down Manning if they got after you.”

“There’s nothing like being beforehand,” replied Neil demurely.

“Well, they’d get you if they could, I guess. What are you looking so
foxy about? Have they been after you already?”

Neil laughed and nodded. “More than a month ago. Greg Trenholme wrote
me.”

“Oh! What did you tell him?”

“Declined, with proper expression of polite regret. I dare say I’d feel
rather the fool if I failed at Lyceum. Still――――”

“Fail? Why should you? Don’t be an ass! You’ll go through flying. Well,
let’s get washed up. I’m as hungry as a bear!”




                              CHAPTER IV

                          “ONLY THE CAPTAIN!”


The football training table was customarily formed about four days
after the beginning of the term. It was in reality two tables, at which
were gathered some twenty-two of the foremost candidates. Precedent
had established a hard-and-fast dietary, of which such articles as
underdone steaks and chops and roasts of beef formed the fixed basis.
Fresh bread was taboo, as was pastry and most other forms of dessert.
Eggs, certain cereals, milk and fresh vegetables and fruit formed the
balance of the menu. A patented preparation of grain took the place of
coffee. Usually by the time the season drew to an end you got so you
could drink the substitute without making a face. But before that time
you had become heartily sick of the monotony of the food and sighed
deeply for such health-destroying viands as baked macaroni, apple
pie, broiled ham, suet puddings and coffee――especially and constantly
coffee! Even the twice-a-week ice cream, observed enviously by the
neighboring tables, didn’t make up for the breaded veal cutlets or
hot rolls that passed with teasing fragrance but never stopped.
The training table necessitated what practically amounted to the
preparation of two meals in the school kitchen, a fact that doubtless
led the faculty to listen sympathetically to the suggestion of Mr.
Haynes. This suggestion reached the faculty by way of the Committee on
Athletics, popularly called the “Athletic Faculty,” and was submitted
with the committee’s entire approval. The suggestion was no less than
the abolishment of the training table. The first regular faculty
conference was held Thursday evening. Mr. Pierson, assistant instructor
in English and chairman of the Athletic Faculty, laid the matter before
the meeting and read the written argument by the new coach. Subject,
he stated, to the approval of the school faculty, the Committee on
Athletics proposed to give the plan a trial. After a discussion which,
considering the revolutionary character of the proposal, was extremely
brief, the faculty set the seal of its approval; without, you will
observe, consulting Captain Stuart Harven in the least.

In fact Stuart knew nothing of it until Friday forenoon, and then
learned of it in the most haphazard fashion. Wallace Towne, waiting
for H Room to empty so that he might attend a Latin class before he
had quite forgotten all he had learned overnight, caught Stuart in the
corridor of Manning. “See I was in the know about training table, Cap,”
he said. “I’m always there with the inside info. What do you think of
it? No more raw meat to make us savage. No more parched corn playing
coffee. Real food. Great, I say!”

“What are you jabbering about, Wally?” asked Stuart.

“Mean you don’t know?” Wallace looked incredulous. “Why, dearie,
faculty’s abolished the dear old training table! Give you my word! It’s
a thing of the past. Just like the dodo bird and the tandem play and――
All right, ask Jud McColl if you don’t believe me.”

“You’re crazy,” declared Stuart. But his words lacked conviction. “You
can’t build up a football team without a training table!”

“I can’t, no, but Hop Haynes can. Hop’s the Moses that’s going to lead
us through the Red Sea of dish gravy into the Pruneless Land. Say,
that’s good, what? Have to send that to the ‘Bull’!”

(He did, and _The Bulletin_ printed it, slightly elaborated, in the
Caught on the Campus column.)

Stuart reiterated his doubt of Wallace’s sanity and took himself into
Latin class, Wallace, still chuckling over his _bon mot_, following.
Stuart wasn’t easy in his mind, though, in spite of his expressed
contempt for Wallace’s information, and added nothing to his laurels
as a Latin scholar that morning. Oddly enough, Judson McColl was the
first fellow Stuart’s eyes fell on when the class was over. McColl was
Prominence personified. He was President of the recently formed Student
Council, President of Manning Society, Captain of the Hockey Team and,
with Stearns Wilson, represented the student body on the Athletic
Faculty. In spite of all these honors, however, McColl was simple,
likable and approachable. He expressed regretful surprise that Stuart
had been unaware of the proposed abolition of the training table.

“I supposed of course you knew, Stuart,” he said. “Mr. Haynes
introduced the proposal several days ago.”

McColl looked so puzzled that Stuart fancied his dignity in danger.
“Of course I heard something about it,” he replied defensively, “but I
didn’t know it had been brought up. Personally, I think it’s a crazy
scheme, Jud.”

“We-ell, I don’t know.” McColl pursed his lips. “Haynes made out a
strong case, Stuart. Of course, if it doesn’t work we’ll go back to the
old way. We thought there’d be no harm in giving it a trial, eh?”

Stuart shrugged. “Seems to me it would have been fairer to give the
players a voice in the matter,” he said.

“Don’t agree with you there,” replied McColl. “Things like that are up
to the Committee. Anyway, about all the football fellows I’ve talked
with are in favor of it.”

Stuart looked incredulous, but, having no data to base a contrary
assertion on, he let the statement pass unchallenged. Parting from
McColl, he went over to Meigs to unburden his mind to Jack. Jack,
of course would share his indignation. But neither Jack nor Stearns
Wilson, his roommate, was in, and Stuart went across to Lacey and spent
the period before dinner nursing his sense of injury. Neil had a class
and didn’t show up before the midday meal, and Stuart had sufficient
time and solitude to work up a very fair case against Coach Haynes and
the Athletic Faculty. Thinking things over, it struck him as peculiar,
if not suspicious, that Jack, who, since he roomed with Stearns Wilson,
must have known about the training table matter, hadn’t spoken of it to
him. Stuart uneasily wondered if Jack favored the absurd change. McColl
had said that many of the players did. Perhaps Jack was one of them
and, knowing Stuart’s position in the matter, had purposely avoided the
subject. Jack became grouped in Stuart’s mind with those others who had
conspired to bring about an iniquitous change by underhand methods.
He decided to see Coach Haynes immediately after dinner and speak his
mind. After all, Haynes was the chief culprit.

At dinner Stuart broached the matter to Leo Burns and Harry Beeman,
the only members of the squad at his table, and was pained, even
disgusted, to discover that they were heartily in favor of the change.
Beeman, who, as a first-string man and a veteran, should have had more
sense, was eloquent on the merits of the new plan, and Stuart retired
disgruntledly from the subject. The left guard made himself more
obnoxious by taking it for granted that his views were the captain’s.

Stuart’s hike to Coach Haynes’ quarters in the village after dinner
produced no satisfaction, for the coach wasn’t there. He waited
awhile, but Mr. Haynes didn’t come. Having to hurry back to school
under an ardent September sun so as not to be late for a half-past-one
recitation didn’t improve Stuart’s temper any. It was in the gymnasium
at three-thirty that he finally unburdened his mind. His arraignment
wasn’t nearly so harsh as he had intended it should be, for Mr. Haynes
was so palpably sincere in his regrets that Stuart had to pull in his
horns at the very beginning.

“I wouldn’t have had it happen for anything,” declared the coach
earnestly. “I was certain that I had spoken of the matter to you,
Captain Harven. I surely intended to. I went into it with quite a
number of the fellows, I know. So many things have come up the past
week, though, I’ve been so rushed and confused, that probably I failed
to consult you.”

“You certainly did,” replied Stuart stiffly. “And, naturally, I was
rather surprised this morning to learn that the matter had come up and
been decided.”

“I should say so!” Mr. Haynes was evidently grieved. “Of course you
should have been consulted, and I can’t see how I failed to bring it
up to you. You’re quite sure it wasn’t mentioned? There was that long
talk we had in your room one night――――”

“It wasn’t mentioned then, sir, nor at any other time. Perhaps I
wouldn’t mind so much if――if I approved, but I don’t, Mr. Haynes.”

“Really? By jove, I’m sorry to hear that! So many of the fellows
favored it, you see, Harven. No one I spoke to was against giving
the plan a trial. It isn’t an experiment, Harven, although it is new
here. We tried it out my last two years at Fisherville and it worked
splendidly. You couldn’t get one person there to-day to speak in favor
of the training table. We got far better results without it. We didn’t
lose a single game last year, and only one the year before. Three years
ago we lost four out of eight. That tells the story, doesn’t it?”

Stuart frowned, unconvinced. “How can you tell it was that, Mr. Haynes?
You might have done just the same with a training table, I’d say.”

“The condition of the fellows was better, Harven; thirty per cent
better at least. It isn’t rare beefsteak and thick cream and the rest
of the stereotyped training table diet that produces the best results.
I’ve seen teams spoiled by overeating time and again. Loading your
stomach with rich, heavy food is simply folly. It doesn’t make for
strength and energy, Harven. Plain food, plenty of it, but never too
much, is my belief.”

“If the fellows eat around at different tables, how are you going to
see that they eat what they should?”

“You don’t.” Mr. Haynes smiled. “They see to that themselves. It
doesn’t take them long to learn the lesson. Those who prefer to eat
what isn’t good for them to playing football are no loss to us. But
you’ll find there aren’t many such: perhaps one or two in a squad of
forty. It isn’t just a case of being put on honor, Harven; it’s a case
of using your common sense. If you don’t eat wisely you don’t keep
in condition, and if you aren’t in condition you don’t play on the
team. Just as soon as the fellows get that into their heads there’s no
trouble. The fare here is good enough and sufficient enough and varied
enough for any fellow to train on, Harven, and I’ll guarantee to show
you a better-conditioned squad by the first of November than Manning
ever saw here when training tables were used.”

“You couldn’t spoil the crowd we’ve got here this year no matter what
you fed them!” replied Stuart stubbornly.

“Oh, yes, you could! You’d only have to feed them on underdone beef
twice a day, and fill them with rich cream, and encourage them to eat
all they’d hold. I’ve seen it tried pretty often. I went through it
myself, too. I’ve been so logy after a dinner of that sort that it
was an effort to stretch my arms! Look here, Captain Harven, keep an
open mind on this question, won’t you? Just sit back and see how it
turns out. We both want to secure the best possible results this year,
and I think this is one way to do it. Don’t think that I’m simply
experimenting with the team, for I’m not. I’m convinced that this way
is the best. If I weren’t I wouldn’t consider it for a moment. I’m
mighty sorry that the thing went through without your cognizance, and I
certainly apologize for my share of the blame. But it has gone through,
and so, even if you don’t feel like giving it your full approval yet,
you’ll help me to make it go, won’t you?”

Stuart shrugged. “I don’t see how I could do anything else,” he
answered. “Only――well, I’ll wait and see. I’ve got to be shown, sir.”

“Quite right! We’ll leave it so. Now we’d better get out, eh?”

All during practice the conviction persisted in Stuart’s mind that,
in spite of Mr. Haynes’ smooth words something, as he phrased it to
himself, had been put over on him. He felt aggrieved, even humiliated,
and regretted that he hadn’t talked up to the coach harder than he
had. The trouble was, he reflected, that Mr. Haynes was so blamed
polite and plausible that you couldn’t talk the way you wanted to!
Instead of interfering with his work, however, Stuart’s grievance that
afternoon induced redoubled exertion, and he drove A squad so hard and
put so much vim and snap into his work that, in the twenty minutes of
scrimmaging, the veterans twice carried the ball nearly the length
of the field for a score. The Laird, hovering up and down the side
line, frowned dubiously. Such speed had no place on a gridiron where a
thermometer, had there been such a thing, would have registered around
seventy!

Going back to the gymnasium afterward, Stuart charged Jack with black
treachery. “You knew what was going on, didn’t you?” he demanded.
“Stearns must have talked about it. Why didn’t you say something to me?”

“Why, I thought you knew!” expostulated Jack. “Of course Stearns
mentioned it, but there wasn’t much talk. I knew you didn’t like the
scheme and I supposed you were putting up a fight.”

“It’s mighty funny,” growled the other. “Every fellow in school seems
to have known all about it except me! It’s the silliest stunt I ever
heard of! First thing we know Haynes’ll be springing a scheme to cut
out practice!”

“Well, he hasn’t shown any sign of it yet,” replied Jack dryly. “Looks
to me like he was a plaguey sight more likely to overwork us than
underwork us! We’ve had more hard practice in a week than we had last
fall in two weeks! And you’re as bad as he is. Looked like you were
trying to play us off our feet to-day!”

“Do you good,” muttered Stuart. “Are you in favor of no training table,
too?”

“Well, I don’t know,” said Jack cautiously. “I do think that we
sometimes ate too much last year. I’ve seen Joe Cutts get away with
two steaks and three baked potatoes, besides all the trimmings, at one
meal. And you’ll remember that half of us were no good at all for a
whole week in October last season. The Laird said we’d been eating too
many eggs and too much milk.”

“Well, we won, didn’t we? A touch of biliousness is nothing. You can’t
keep thirty-odd fellows in perfect trim every day for two months. That
stands to reason. Eating too much doesn’t help, of course, but eating
the wrong sort of stuff is worse. And that’s what a lot of chaps will
do when there’s no one to look after them. Haynes says it worked fine
at Fisherville, but Fisherville isn’t Manning. Besides, they always
take mighty good pains at Fisherville to take on only teams they know
they can lick!”

“I guess it isn’t that bad,” laughed Jack. “You don’t like Fisherville;
that’s your trouble. The truth is, though, that Fisherville turned out
just about the best and smoothest team in this part of the country last
fall, and you can’t get around that, old chap.”

“We’d have beaten her if she’d given us a chance,” growled Stuart.
“They’re mighty careful not to give us a game.”

“Haynes said the other day he would arrange a game next season.”

“He may think so,” answered Stuart pessimistically, “but Fisherville
will find an excuse. You wait and see.”

Later, Stuart sought sympathy from Neil and, after a fashion,
got it. Neil agreed that Stuart should have been consulted in the
matter; agreed, too, that doing away with the training table was most
unfortunate if Stuart’s forebodings should prove justified. “Maybe,
though, Mr. Haynes meant to consult you, as he says he did,” continued
Neil. “I guess he has had a good deal to think about since he took
hold, eh? It’s all pretty new to him, Stuart. It was decent of him to
apologize.”

“What’s the good of his apology?” demanded the other impatiently.
“Whether he meant to consult me or not, he didn’t, and it makes me
feel rather small, naturally. I’m captain of the team, and I ought to
have a little say in its affairs. It doesn’t look as if I were going
to, though! Haynes has the Athletic Faculty with him, and can do as he
likes, I guess. I should think either Jud or Stearns might have asked
my opinion before buckling under to him. They’re supposed to look after
the interests of the fellows, but all they think about is pleasing
Haynes.”

Neil let that pass without comment. After a moment he asked: “Do you
really think it will work badly, Stuart, this new plan?”

“Oh, I don’t know. But what’s the good of it? We got along all right
before, didn’t we? Why does he have to come and upset things?
Faculty’s crazy to give in to him this way, too.”

“Well, let’s wait and see how it turns out,” advised Neil. “Mr. Haynes
must think he’s right, or he wouldn’t advocate it. If he’s wrong, of
course they’ll go back to the training table again. Just don’t let it
upset you, Stuart. That’s the main thing. Steady on, eh?”

“Oh, it doesn’t matter about me,” muttered Stuart ironically. “I’m only
the captain!”




                               CHAPTER V

                         A CLASH OF AUTHORITY


Manning disposed of Lansing High School the next day without difficulty.
The score, 20 to 0, did not, in fact, represent the true strength of the
home team, for in the last half Coach Haynes ran in a bewildering number
of substitutes who, while they held the opponent from scoring, were not
able to add to the twenty points already won. The Cherry-and-Gray showed
excellent form, rather better than was customary in a first contest, and
Manning strolled away from the field comfortably certain that this
year’s “Cherries” were going to prove themselves one of the Big Teams in
the school’s history. Indeed, with practically six seasoned veterans to
build around, there was no apparent reason why the team shouldn’t turn
out to be as good as any in recent years. Stuart was in gay spirits that
evening, and only the fact that his proposal of Neil to membership in
Lyceum was to be acted on kept him from joining Jack and “Howdy” Tasker
and Fred Locker and several more of the football crowd in a visit to
Safford’s one movie house. Jack, bursting hilariously into Number 12
after supper with an announcement of the party, had to be satisfied with
Neil’s acceptance. Stuart watched them join the others at the gate and
go off along School Lane, and felt rather virtuous and heroic.

When he reached Lyceum House he found that various Saturday night
diversions had reduced the attendance at the first regular meeting to
less than a score of fellows. Stearns Wilson was there of course, for
he was President, and so, in his rôle of faculty director, was Mr.
Moffit. Thurston, Whaley, Tom Muirgart and Steve Le Gette represented
the football element. Stuart wasn’t especially pleased to see Le Gette,
who was a big, dark-complexioned, curly-haired fellow of eighteen, a
senior and candidate for a tackle position. Stuart had nothing especial
against the other. He doubted if they had spoken a hundred words to
each other since they had been in school. But he didn’t like Le Gette’s
sardonic smile, which always made him feel that the big black-haired
fellow was secretly laughing at him, and he was pretty certain that Le
Gette liked him no better. But his annoyance at sight of the other――if
it deserved the name――was slight and passing.

The secretary was painfully long-winded with his report, but he
finished it at last and at least six members relievedly moved its
adoption. Balloting on the names of five candidates for election
started then. Neil’s name came last, and Stuart made his little
speech――and did it very well since he had the knack of talking well
to an audience――and Stearns Wilson seconded the proposal very nicely,
saying much more than Stuart had dared hope he would when he had
enlisted his aid. As no one asked Mr. Moffit’s opinion, the director
could not enter the lists on behalf of the candidate. But after all,
Stuart reflected, it was of no consequence, for among the small number
present there was surely no one to vote against a fellow as well liked
as Neil. Even as he made this reflection, though, his gaze fell on
Steve Le Gette and an instant’s doubt assailed him. But it passed
quickly. Blackballing a candidate for election to Lyceum was something
that wasn’t done without good cause, without strong conviction of
the candidate’s undesirability, and Le Gette scarcely knew Neil and
certainly could have nothing against him. George Whaley briefly added
his second and voting began. Each member walked to the table, picked
a ball from the outer compartment of the box and dropped it into the
inner. Conversation, interrupted by the speeches, began again. Stuart,
talking to Mr. Moffit, faltered as he watched Le Gette stride to the
box and cast his vote, and then secretly laughed at himself for his
doubt.

Will Severence, the secretary, drew aside the cover as casually as
he had on four previous occasions. Then, however, his manner altered
abruptly and he glanced swiftly, questioningly about the room. After
a moment’s hesitation he announced: “One contrary vote, fellows,” and
held up a little black ball. A second of silence followed. Then several
spoke at once, but it was Muirgart’s voice that was loudest.

“Some silly mistake!” he exclaimed incredulously. “No one would be
crazy enough to turn down a fellow like Orr!”

“Of course,” agreed Stearns Wilson. “Must be a mistake.”

“Try it over,” suggested Thurston.

It was irregular and some discussion followed, but in the end, since
every one appeared willing and Mr. Moffit smilingly declined to give
a ruling, the vote was taken a second time, and in silence. Severence
once again surveyed the result, and there was a troubled tone in his
voice as he answered the silently questioning gaze of the meeting.

“Just the same,” he said. “One black.”

“_What!_” Stuart half started from his chair, but Mr. Moffit laid a
gently restraining hand on him.

“Oh, I say, that’s a rotten shame!” declared George Whaley. “What’s
the idea?” He appealed frowningly about the room. “Look at the fellows
we’ve taken in already to-night! I’d like to know who’s got it in for
Orr!”

“Well, don’t scowl at me,” growled Thurston. “I didn’t do it.”

“Same here!” “Nor I!” Several voices disclaimed until Stearns Wilson
rapped sharply on the desk. “Is there any further business?” he asked.
Stuart again made as if to rise and again Mr. Moffit’s hand restrained
him. Some one moved adjournment, some one seconded and the meeting was
over. Whaley and Muirgart moved toward Stuart, but he was already on
his feet, making for the door, his face black with rage. He pushed past
them with a muttered growl. Taking his cap from the table in the hall,
his gaze unwittingly encountered the face of Steve Le Gette through the
open door and their eyes met. Le Gette’s countenance seemed to Stuart
to express a triumph at once derisive and amused. Mr. Moffit called
from the doorway an instant later, but Stuart, already crunching the
gravel of the Principal’s Walk, either did not or pretended not to hear.

Neil was back in Number 12 when Stuart reached it, comfortably reclined
in a morris chair, reading. Stuart closed the door behind with a slam
and shied his cap to the bed. “The dirty pup!” he raged. “The sneaking
bounder! But I’ll get even with him if it takes all the rest of my
life! He can’t do that to me and get away with it!”

Neil’s cheeks went a little white, but he only smiled as he said: “No
use getting mad about it, Stuart. He had a right to turn me down if he
wanted to, I guess.”

“No, he didn’t, by jingo! He――Look here!” Stuart paused in his
irritable tramping between door and table. “How’d you know?”

“Must have guessed it from your manner,” laughed Neil. “How many were
there against me?”

“One, but that was enough. It was Steve Le Gette, the dirty dog. He
doesn’t like me, but that’s no reason to take it out on you! Just
because I put your name up――――”

“Are you sure it was Le Gette?” Neil looked puzzled. “Why, I don’t even
know him, except by sight! Why should he――he――――”

“Because he wanted to get at me, I tell you! But I’ll get _him_, Neil,
as sure as shooting!”

“Did he tell you he did it?”

“Tell me? Of course he didn’t! He wouldn’t have had the courage to tell
it! But he looked it. It was on his ugly face from the moment I got
there. I half suspected it, but I couldn’t quite think he’d do it, even
if he wanted to. Every one there was so――so astonished they wouldn’t
believe it! We took the vote over! If you’d seen the sneering, rotten
look he gave me afterwards! I wish I’d punched his face right then. If
Moffit hadn’t been there――――”

“I’m glad you didn’t,” said Neil quietly. “After all, it’s rather my
affair than it is yours, isn’t it?”

Stuart stared in real surprise. It hadn’t occurred to him before that
Neil might be the one to feel it most. Even now he wasn’t ready to
acknowledge it.

“Not by a long shot,” he declared. “The insult was to me. He’s got
nothing against you, couldn’t have. If any one else had proposed you
he wouldn’t have cared. If I’d realized I’d have had Thirsty or Whaley
do it. I’m not through yet, though. I’ll get you in next term, you can
bet!”

“I’m not sure that I’d want you to,” said Neil doubtfully. “Isn’t there
something a little――well, a little degrading about coming back like
that after you’ve been shown once that you aren’t wanted?”

“Not a bit! Look here, Neil, every fellow there wanted you in, and they
were all as surprised and――and mad as I was! You bet I’ll try again!
And I’ll make it go, too! When I get through with Le Gette he won’t
know a black ball from a white!”

“I’d lots rather you just let the whole thing drop,” said Neil
earnestly. “Taking revenge on Le Gette isn’t worth while. Besides,
being blackballed isn’t――well, it isn’t altogether pleasant, and I’d a
heap rather not have it talked about, and all that, you know.”

“I’m not going to talk about it,” answered Stuart grimly. Then, after a
moment, getting Neil’s point of view, he added: “It’s nonsense to feel
that way about it, though, old chap. Lots of fellows are turned down
for Lyceum or Manning without any one thinking anything about it. And,
gee, some fellows get three and four black balls against them! Every
one there to-night knows that it was just spite-work. You don’t need to
let it worry you one mite.”

“Thanks, but I’d rather you didn’t go after Le Gette, Stuart, if you
don’t mind very much. In the first place, you have no real proof――――”

“Proof enough,” growled the other.

“And in the second place, it’ll just make talk. Let’s forget it.”

“Not on your life! There won’t be any talk, Neil, but Le Gette will
know that I’ve settled with him!”

Neil said no more. He believed that by morning Stuart would have calmed
down somewhat. And it wasn’t wise to oppose Stuart beyond a certain
point, anyway. He just got more set in his notions. Stuart returned to
the subject several times before sleep settled down over Number 12.

Had Stuart encountered Le Gette the next forenoon there would probably
have been an explosion; perhaps blows. But, as luck had it, he didn’t,
and by eleven-thirty, at which time an open hour fell to him, he had
thought of a better, more subtle method of revenge. He went into the
village and found Mr. Haynes. The coach, sitting in his shirt-sleeves
by an open window of his living room, listened silently to the tale.
When Stuart had reached the end of his eloquence he lighted his briar
again and said: “Too bad, Harven. Possibly, though, you’ll be able to
make it the next time. From what I hear, this chap Orr is too fine a
fellow to be treated like that.”

“He’s a corker,” declared Stuart stoutly. “Yes, I’ll make it the next
time all right, Mr. Haynes, but it’s this time that I’m talking about.”

“I see. Well, was there something you wanted from me? I’m afraid I’m
not in a position to be much help to you, as much as I’d like to.”

“Why, I came to you because I wanted you to know just what a rotter Le
Gette is! I’m not going to have that sort of a fellow on the team, sir.
We don’t want his kind. The others wouldn’t if they knew. Of course,
I’m not going to tell it around. It’ll get around without my telling,
anyway. I just wanted you to understand what the reason was, Mr.
Haynes.”

The coach blew a cloud of smoke from his lips and through it viewed
Stuart in a puzzled fashion. “Let me get this right, Captain Harven,”
he said after a moment. “Am I to understand that you’re proposing
to――well, dispense with Le Gette’s services on the team?”

Stuart looked surprised, too. “Of course! I propose to fire him! What
else is there to do? A fellow like Le Gette isn’t fit for the team.
That’s what I’m here about.”

“I see.” Mr. Haynes was silent for the better part of a minute, while
Stuart watched him with dawning suspicion. Then: “I don’t think the
position you take is tenable, Captain Harven,” he said gently. “Because
a private quarrel exists between you and Le Gette you propose to
deprive the squad of a very clever player. Now――――”

“The quarrel has nothing to do with it,” replied Stuart impatiently. “I
can look after my own quarrels. But Le Gette did a sneaky, contemptible
act. Don’t you see that? A football team is――is――well, in a way it’s
a society, Mr. Haynes, a club. It has its social side as well as its
other, and we don’t want to have dealings with a fellow like Le Gette,
a fellow that will make a personal matter the excuse for harming one
whom he doesn’t even know.”

“Are you sure you aren’t making this a personal matter, too? Are you
sure it’s because you want to guard the members of the team from the
contaminating influence of Le Gette? Or are you merely trying to get
even with him? Better think about that a minute.”

“Of course I’m sore against him,” answered Stuart resentfully. “I don’t
deny that. Any fellow would be. But, just the same, I’m acting for
the――the welfare――――”

“Granting that, though, Captain Harven,” interrupted the coach, “how do
you know that Le Gette really did what you say he did? As I understand
it, there is no way of telling whether a voter drops in a black ball
or a white ball at your elections. Has Le Gette acknowledged he voted
against Orr?”

“No, not in words. He doesn’t have to. I _know_! His looks were enough.
Besides, he was the only one there that could have! The others all
wanted Neil elected.”

“Well, suppose you’re correct in your assumption,” said the coach.
“There is more than a reasonable doubt, I’d say, but suppose you are.
Do you seriously ask me to fire Le Gette for this offense and on this
evidence?”

“No, for I’ll fire him myself,” flared Stuart. “I’m captain of the
team, even if being captain doesn’t amount to much this year! At
least, I fancy, I’ve got the right to say whether or not a player is
fit to be on the team!”

Mr. Haynes shook his head gently. “I doubt that, Harven.”

“What! Do you mean to say――――”

“Exactly.” The coach’s voice was quiet but very firm, very assured.
“I mean, Captain Harven, that it is the coach’s place to select the
players. That I take to be one of his duties. If he is to instruct a
team in football he certainly has the privilege of deciding who shall
belong to that team; in other words whom he considers eligible to his
instruction. And if he has the power to choose the members he must
surely have the power to dispense with them.”

“Where does the captain come in in your scheme?” sneered Stuart.

“The captain has the duty of leadership,” replied the coach, without
appearance of offense. “The team selected, he becomes its head,
responsible to the coach for its obedience to his orders and, more
than all, for its morale. There should be close and frank coöperation
between captain and coach. The captain undoubtedly should occupy an
advisory position in all matters pertaining to the team. He should
act as a liaison officer between the players and the coach. I am sorry
that coöperation between us so far this season hasn’t amounted to
much. From the first, rightly or wrongly, I have observed an attitude
of resentment in you toward me. I have said nothing, in the hope that
it would pass, in the trust that you would soon set aside any slight
personal dislike of me that you had and meet me fairly and frankly
halfway. But this you don’t seem inclined to do. I’ll acknowledge
that the matter of the training table was unfortunate, but I think
that, were you perfectly fair to me, you would acknowledge that no
offense was meant and sponge it off the slate, Harven. Wait, please:
let me finish. There can’t be divided authority in the running of a
football team any more than there can be in any other effort toward
success. It is best to have the duties of your office and mine clearly
defined for our mutual understanding. I am paid a salary――two thousand
dollars, to be exact――to come here and do my level best to turn out
a winning football team. As I understand it, I am responsible only
to the Committee on Athletics and, under them, am in full command. I
couldn’t do the work justice if matters were any different, Harven.
You have been chosen the captain of the team, an intermediary between
the players and the coach. Your authority does not extend beyond that
of any other member of the team _outside_ the team. To grant you the
right to select and discharge players would be fatal to my authority.
You would become the court of last resort and your word would be law,
not mine. I couldn’t work under those conditions. Surely you must see
that, Captain Harven.”

“Until this year the captain has had an equal say with the coach in the
affairs of the team,” answered Stuart hotly. “Until you came there was
never any question as to who had authority or who hadn’t!”

“And until this year you were not captain,” replied Mr. Haynes coldly.
“I’m sorry, Harven. I wish things had turned out differently. Perhaps
I’m not wholly free from blame, but, frankly, I don’t know how to
handle you, my boy. I hope we’ll come together presently. Meanwhile
I’m here for just one thing. You know what that is. And I propose to
accomplish that thing. I want your help, need it badly, but, with it or
without it, I’m going to be coach of this team and hold the reins.”

Stuart jerked to his feet and stared down on his host with white
face and angry eyes. “You refuse to fire Le Gette, then?” he demanded
tensely.

“I do, Captain Harven. I refuse most decidedly.”

“Suppose I say, then, that I won’t work on the team with him?”

“You can’t,” answered the coach earnestly. “You have a duty to the
school, just as I have toward my employer. Clashes between you and me,
my boy, must not be allowed to damage the prospects of the team. We’ll
fight our battles together off the field and not, as you say Le Gette
did, make the innocent suffer.”

Stuart’s eyes fell, but the hostility was still in his voice as he
answered: “All right, sir. I’m just as keen as you are for having
Manning win this year. You needn’t lay all the blame on me, though, for
not coöperating. You treated me rotten from the first. I shan’t forget
that. I guess you’ve got the Athletic Faculty behind you, so there’s
nothing for me to do but lie down and play dead! I’m not going to fight
you. If I asked for a show-down I guess the team would be on my side,
all right, but I’m not playing baby. I’ll see it through because it’s
my team as much as it is yours, even if you don’t think so. There’s
one thing, though, I’m promising myself, Mr. Haynes. When the season’s
over I’m going to give myself the satisfaction of telling you just what
I think of you!”

“When the season’s over I’ll be ready to hear it, Captain Harven,”
answered the coach quietly.

Stuart went out wishing mightily that slamming the door would not be
beneath his dignity.




                              CHAPTER VI

                                DEFEAT


No one learned of that conversation in the coach’s quarters but Neil.
And Neil, although he said little, was, in Stuart’s opinion, none too
sympathetic. Which, of course, means that Neil didn’t approve of his
chum’s course and couldn’t conceal the fact. Stuart was sensible of a
slight disappointment in Neil this fall. The latter didn’t seem nearly
so sympathetic as last year, he thought. Somewhat moodily he listened
to Neil’s plea for concord and patience, at last replying rather
testily:

“Don’t worry. I know where I stand and I’m going to take my medicine.
Haynes has the upper hand and, short of taking the matter to the Ath.
Fac., there’s nothing I can do. And I guess the Ath. Fac., would back
Haynes against me, as far as that goes. He’s being paid a salary for
his job, and I’m not. They’d do as he said if only to get their money’s
worth. As for Le Gette――――”

He stopped, and Neil said anxiously: “Better forget all about him,
Stuart. There’s nothing you can do, anyhow!”

“There’s plenty I _can_ do,” answered the other grimly, “but I’m not
going to. Haynes is right about one thing, and I’m fair enough to say
so. The team’s success is the main consideration. I’ll work as hard for
that as he will, confound him!”

To Stuart’s credit it may be said that he honestly meant that and
earnestly tried to live up to the promise. If he didn’t wholly succeed
it was not for lack of good intention. Between him and Le Gette ensued
a period of armed neutrality. Stuart heroically resisted the temptation
to tell Le Gette what he thought of him, promising himself, however,
the pleasure of doing so after Pearsall had been disposed of. It was
in his power to make Le Gette’s path to the first team more difficult
of travel, perhaps, by underhand machinations, to keep him off it
entirely, but he had no thought of that. At work they spoke when they
had to. At other times they passed without greetings. Jack riled Stuart
one day by declaring that Le Gette seemed to him to be rather a decent
chap. “Of course I don’t know him,” he added. “I’m only judging by
what I’ve seen of him at the field.”

“You know what he did to Neil, don’t you?” asked Stuart hotly.

“Y-yes, but――well, honestly, Stuart, I’ve always thought there might
have been a mistake there.”

“There was,” replied the other dryly, “and he’ll find it out some day!”

On the seventh, Manning defeated Wentworth, 7 to 0, in a close,
well-played contest, and there began to be talk of getting through
the season without being scored against. A week later such talk
ended abruptly. On the Tuesday succeeding the Wentworth game the
Cherry-and-Gray met her first misfortune. Leo Burns, already picked as
the likeliest of the halfbacks, sprained his ankle in practice. It was
a bad sprain, with no chance of recovery in time for the Walsenburg
game, and Stuart’s confidence in the team’s ability to win that contest
had a setback. Of course it was no life-or-death matter, but he wanted
that game very much. Walsenburg was a stout adversary who had thrown
several scares into Manning during the last few years, but had beaten
her but once. Stuart knew that Walsenburg was thirsting for Manning
blood and even suspected her of duplicity in securing an early date.
Also, there existed a slight feeling of rivalry between him and the
Walsenburg quarter. All in all, Stuart would rather have won that
contest than any other on the schedule, with, of course, the exception
of the big game with Pearsall. He tentatively mentioned splints and
bandages to The Laird, but The Laird was emphatically opposed to taking
chances.

“He’d be little use, Cap, in the game,” he declared, “and if he was
hurt again he’d be out for the season. Yes, I know he’s keen for
playing, but there’s other games coming and we’ll need him worse than
we’ll need him next Saturday.”

“There isn’t any game coming, except Pearsall, that I’d rather win,”
replied Stuart dejectedly.

“Nor me,” agreed the trainer. “They’re a hard, corky bunch of lads, but
maybe we’ll down them just the same.”

“That’s likely, with Haynes making no effort for them,” said Stuart
bitterly. “He isn’t even giving us a new play! We’ll have to face them
with the same stuff we had last year, and they’ll eat it up, Laird!”

Nevertheless, Stuart hadn’t given up all hope, for even though Coach
Haynes had decided to make no special preparations for Walsenburg,
he knew that there was a strong sentiment among the players in favor
of beating the rival at almost any cost, and he was relying on that
sentiment to pull the team through. It was evident as early as the
first of that week that no help was to be expected from Mr. Haynes. He
had more than once declared himself against disturbing the early season
progress of the team for the purpose of beating an opponent. “We’ll
take them in our stride,” was his way of expressing it. There was not
a little criticism and some grumbling from the veterans, but the new
coach had by now pretty firmly established himself in their favor, and
openly expressed opposition to his decision was lacking.

Ernest Lowe took Burns’ place at left half and practice went on
methodically until Friday. On Friday evening Coach Haynes did call a
session in the gymnasium and gave them nearly an hour of floor practice
on formations and some ten minutes of good advice, but that was the
extent of his concessions. And the next day, when the line-up was made
known, he had, at least in the judgment of most, neutralized that by
putting Steve Le Gette in at right tackle in place of Ned Thurston. Le
Gette had been playing a good game as substitute, and Thurston had, it
was true, been under his form since the Wentworth contest, but those
who knew “Thirsty” were convinced of his ability to come back and were
far from pleased with the change. Stuart closed his lips very tight and
said nothing when the list was read, but on the way to the field he
confided to Jack bitterly that “Walsenburg ought to lick us, with our
own coach doing all he can to help her!”

From a Manning viewpoint the game left much to be desired. Looking at
it from the Walsenburg side of the field, it was a corker! Walsenburg’s
players were probably no better individually than the opponent’s,
but collectively they were just as much better as the final score
proclaimed them: and the final score was 13 to 6.

Walsenburg had developed team play to a remarkable point, considering
the time of year. Sticking to quite simple plays, starting from a
three-abreast formation, Walsenburg relied on speed, weight and
smoothness of operation to win. The Cherry-and-Gray was put on the
defensive early in the first quarter and kept there until the half
was over, while the enemy twice rushed her way to the home team’s
threshold, the first time losing the ball on downs on the eight yards
and the second time plunging across the line for a touchdown that was
followed by a goal. In the third quarter Manning staged a come-back,
and securing the pigskin on her own twenty-two yards she mingled two
forward-passes with an end-running attack that, aided by a penalty for
holding, placed her within scoring distance of the adversary’s goal.

After that it was only grim determination that enabled her to put
the ball over, for her plays, none of them new, were “old stuff” to
Walsenburg and were as often stopped behind the line as beyond it. It
was individual brilliancy versus team play, with the odds all in favor
of the latter, and yet for once the probabilities were upset, for,
from the visitor’s twenty-seven to her six, big, calm-eyed “Howdy”
Tasker, at fullback, smashed his way in four attempts, once plunging
for five yards outside left tackle quite on his own, the interference
having been nailed in its tracks. From the six, Manning ground down the
defense by concentrating on the Walsenburg right guard, throwing Tasker
and Hanson at him, and then Tasker again, and gaining a yard, a yard
and a half and another yard. On fourth down slightly over six feet of
trampled turf remained to be conquered, and, with Manning imploring
from the stand, Tasker again hurled himself at Walsenburg’s right guard
and Stuart, the ball snuggled to his stomach, shot off to the right,
head down, and plunged some how through the mêlée until, falling, his
hands held the pigskin just over the last white line.

Stuart failed at goal by less than the width of the ball and Manning
groaned dismay and sorrow, for at this stage of the contest it seemed
that the home team might hold the enemy from further scoring. But,
although Walsenburg appeared content to mark time for the rest of the
period, in the last quarter she again showed her power. Tasker’s weak
punt from his thirty-five to midfield gave the adversary her chance
and she set herself to the task with new energy. She had freshened
her backfield with a pair of substitute halfs and began a ferocious,
remorseless hammering of the Manning right side. Towne was worn down
and gave way to Baker, and Le Gette, who had performed creditably
at right tackle, was replaced by Thurston. But the enemy had almost
gained his objective by that time and was ready to shift his attack. A
crafty forward-pass, as well performed as it was unexpected, placed the
ball on the home team’s seventeen yards for first down. A fake place
kick developed into a quarterback run around left end, and, although
Stuart brought down his rival well across the field, the pigskin was
four yards closer to the goal line. From the thirteen yards Walsenburg
reached the five in three plunges through a weakening line. There
Manning braced and wrenched the ball from the enemy by inches and
Tasker punted from behind his line. But again the ball went short and a
Walsenburg halfback caught on Manning’s twenty-three and dodged back to
the fourteen.

Tasker and Lowe were taken out and fresh backs sent in. Cutts, at
center, was also replaced. But Walsenburg was not to be denied. A
double pass fooled Manning badly, three plunges at the new center
yielded gains and once more the enemy was inside the five-yard line.
The Cherry-and-Gray cohorts hoarsely pounded out their slogan of
“_Hold, Manning! Hold, Manning!_” but Manning was a played-out team now
and there was little glory for the visitor in her final triumph. Two
plays took the pigskin across, the second through a hole big enough
for a push-cart to pass and Manning tasted the bitterness of defeat.

That game, though it ended in disaster for Manning, was, after all,
nothing to hang one’s head over. Against a far-better developed team,
the Cherry-and-Gray had fought desperately and often heroically, and
this fact, when the first sting of disappointment had worn off, was
recognized by the school. In fact, the _Bulletin_, the school weekly,
was quite epic in its editorial the following Thursday, and likened the
battle to Thermopylae, and the home team to Greek heroes. It praised
Captain Harven highly for his generalship and individual playing, which
praise was certainly well deserved, and it spoke in glowing measure of
several others: Tasker and Towne and Cutts and Whaley; and even dripped
honeyed words on Le Gette. Perhaps the _Bulletin_ overdid it somewhat,
but it meant well.

One person who appeared neither depressed or elated over the result of
the Walsenburg contest was Coach Haynes. He placed criticism where it
was merited and commendation where deserved, and set his face toward
the Forest Hill game with no sign of disturbance on it. He seemed quite
satisfied and, certainly, voiced no regrets.

But Stuart took that defeat badly. Perhaps without realizing it, he had
half believed the optimists who had a week before bravely predicted
a clean slate for the season. I don’t think he allowed his hopes to
dwell on the possibility of the team getting through without being
scored on: that was less a possibility than an impossibility, but
he had dared hope for a season of no defeats. He believed, and was
justified in believing, that had Coach Haynes given the team even three
days of preparation for the Walsenburg contest it might at least have
emerged from it with a tied score. He had no sympathy for the coach’s
contention that a defeat was sometimes good medicine. At least, he
didn’t believe that true of a team of which he was captain. It might be
so other years.

Stuart’s dissatisfaction was increased by the reflection that, so far
as public opinion was concerned, he had failed to show any superiority
over the rival quarterback. Naturally, since the other had played on
the winning side, his work appeared more brilliant. Stuart tried to
comfort himself with the assurance that, man for man, he had shown a
little more than the Walsenburg quarter, but, lacking the confirmation
of public opinion, that assurance didn’t make him happy. He laid
his failure to win the decision over his rival to Mr. Haynes, thus
increasing by just so much more his account against the coach.

Stuart spoke his mind very freely to all save Mr. Haynes. Between him
and the coach there existed an armistice, respectful, but no more.
Stuart avoided private converse with the other, and at the conferences,
held twice, occasionally thrice, a week in the coach’s quarters, he
maintained an aloof attitude that, while it had no apparent disturbing
effect on Mr. Haynes, created a disquieting atmosphere of which the
others were dimly aware. It is doubtful if Stuart realized how evident
his antagonism was; doubtful, too, if, had he realized it, he could
have disguised it, for his resentment still burned very deeply. Stuart
took his grievance to the players and found sympathetic ears. Most of
the fellows held that it would not have hurt the progress of the team
if the coach had allowed them to take or tie the Walsenburg game, and a
few still nursed dissatisfaction as late as the following Monday. Most
of them, however, were willing to let bygones be bygones by then, and
were inclined to be bored when Stuart reverted to the subject. They
liked Stuart, were proud of him as a captain, credited him with the
brilliance as a player which he thoroughly deserved, but when it came
to a question of leadership they preferred to put their trust in Hop
Haynes. Stuart was all right, but――well, he was liable to fly off the
handle if any one tried to interfere with his methods or question his
opinions, and, after all, a football team needed a steady hand on the
lines. That was the general opinion among the fellows, although there
remained a handful whose personal allegiance to Stuart would have stood
them up in front of a firing squad at sunrise if he had led the way.
Among the latter was Jack Brewton. Jack however, was not ignorant of
his friend’s shortcomings. Rather, he realized them very thoroughly and
put his faith in Stuart in spite of them. While he would have stepped
at once to Stuart’s side and had an actual breach between captain and
coach transpired, he would have gone with his eyes open, and while he
was sympathetic toward his friend’s feelings he did not hesitate to say
what he honestly thought, as, on Monday.

“It would have been bully to win that game, Stuart, but Haynes is the
Big Boss, you know, and his business is training football teams. He
evidently thought it would be better not to put out the effort, and
it’s only fair to assume that he was right. The school’s paying him
real money for what he’s doing and all we can do is believe that he’s
worth his salary; at least until he shows he isn’t. And if we believe
that, we’ve got to believe he was right about Saturday’s game. Q. E.
D., or words to that effect.”

“Because you pay a coach a salary it doesn’t signify that he’s got all
the wisdom of Solomon or Walter Camp,” objected Stuart. “We could have
trained a week to meet Walsenburg and still been ready for Forest Hill
next Saturday. Forest Hill isn’t dangerous; and even if she were, any
of us would rather have lost to her than to Walsenburg. Haynes has got
you fellows hypnotized. All he has to do is strike an attitude and look
wise and you all say ‘A-ah!’”

Jack threw an arm over Stuart’s shoulders and shook him gently.
“Listen, old thing, you’re heading for trouble, and I wish you
wouldn’t. Just forget your grouch against Haynes and see how things
turn out. If he hands us a victory over Pearsall you’ll be one of the
first to forgive and forget. Better do it now and make that victory
more certain. Some of the fellows are talking already. They say you
don’t care what happens to the team so long as you can make faces at
Haynes. Of course that isn’t so. The old crowd understands, but there’s
a bunch of new chaps around who are getting gabby. Now, wipe off the
slate, Stuart, and start over. We’re all after success for the team.
Just let’s think of that and nothing else.”

“Oh, all right.” Stuart was silent a moment. Then he added: “It’s easy
enough for you chaps, but――but I’m captain! Hang it, what’s the good of
having a captain if he hasn’t any more authority than a third string
substitute? Since the season started I haven’t had a voice in one
single decision that’s been made! I’m sick of it, I tell you! For two
cents I’d throw it up! I would, by gosh!”

“Oh, no, you wouldn’t,” said Jack soothingly. “You’re not the sort to
desert under fire, old man. Come on and I’ll play you fifty points at
billiards before math.”

Stuart allowed himself to be dragged to Meigs where, perhaps not
without some connivance on Jack’s part, he ran out twelve points to the
good.

After three weeks of trial, the plan of doing without the training
table appeared to be a success. At first some of the new candidates
took advantage of their freedom and ate not wisely but too well, but
they soon discovered that it didn’t work. The Laird had an eagle’s eye
for physical condition, and when a warning wasn’t sufficient a day or
two on the bench――and a four-lap jog of the track――brought the offender
around. Even Stuart was obliged to confess that the new plan was
working satisfactorily, although he made the confession without great
enthusiasm and only to The Laird. He and The Laird were very close
friends, and he could make admissions of this sort to him.

A week of hard practice followed the Walsenburg game and then Manning
met Forest Hill School and won decisively, 27 to 3, and the season was
half over.




                              CHAPTER VII

                      THE ATH. FAC. TAKES A HAND


Before the Forest Hill game was a thing of the past, however, the
dissensions between coach and captain had produced the inevitable
result. There was a feeling of disquiet and apprehension among the
players that showed itself in little but unmistakable ways and, while
as yet it showed no apparent effect on their work, threatened to impair
their morale sooner or later. There was a good deal of talk, a good
deal of discussion, and the fellows began to take sides. Five or six
of the veterans honestly considered that Mr. Haynes had been and still
was conducting the affairs of the team in a high-handed manner, and
while they credited him with the best of intentions they still held
that Stuart was “getting a raw deal.” To these faithful supporters were
added a few others who, caring little about the merits of the case,
loved a scrap for its own sake. To be fair to Stuart it should be said
that, if he did little to prevent this situation, he at least did
nothing intentionally to produce it. When he found that the players
were actually beginning to take sides he saw the danger and, not
hypocritically, declared that “Haynes was boss and it was up to them
all to obey orders and not shoot off their mouths.” That, though, only
brought knowing looks. Of course Stuart would talk like that: he would
feel that he had to!

The other side hinted disagreeably that the captain had a swelled head;
that he always had had and that it was bigger than ever since he had
been made captain: and that any fellow who couldn’t get along with a
chap like Mr. Haynes was a natural-born grouch. Stuart found support
and sympathy in an unsuspected quarter in the shape of manager Fred
Locker. Locker had nothing against the coach personally, but he had
spent three years at Manning and had seen things done differently,
and, while he had nothing to say publicly, he let Stuart know his
sentiments. He talked to Jack one evening, too, but he quickly agreed
with the latter that, whoever was in the right, Stuart mustn’t be
allowed to “mess things up and make a fool of himself.” The main thing,
of course, was to lick Pearsall and it was every fellow’s duty to work
for that result.

In the Forest Hill game Stuart played as well as he ever had, although
the incentive to great effort was lacking since the contest was
one-sided from the first. On Monday, however, when the first was
stacked up against the second and Saturday’s players were, contrary to
custom, sent into the scrimmage, Stuart was distinctly off his game.
Scenting an opportunity to triumph, perhaps, the second, coached by
Mr. Webster, who had long since earned the affectionate nickname of
“Old Unabridged,” started in with a whoop. Several of the fellows on
the first team who had played through the Forest Hill game slightly
resented being called on to-day. Some of them were a little bit tired,
or thought they were, which amounts to practically the same thing.
Among them was Stuart. His resentment was principally aimed at the
violation of a long-established precedent which allowed those who had
played through a Saturday game a Monday of rest or, at the most, the
lightest sort of labor. He didn’t much mind playing, although, as he
explained later to Neil, he “didn’t feel very zippy,” but the injustice
rankled. As a result he――well, he was pretty poor.

Second took the kick-off and came up the field hard, using a new
split-formation play that “Old Unabridged” had just taught them,
to such good results that they were on the first’s twenty-yard line
before any one knew what was happening. After that they tried twice to
bore through the center and then tried to heave across the left. Tom
Muirgart spoiled that, however, catching the ball just short of the
line, and the first lined up on her three yards. Stuart called for a
plunge at center, which yielded practically nothing, and then, instead
of letting Tasker punt out of danger, himself took the ball for a run
around the right. In the situation that was as unexpected a play as
it was hazardous. Perhaps Stuart expected its unexpectedness to make
it go, but if he did he was wrong. A big second team tackle slammed
through and got him before he could turn in and heaved him across the
goal line for a safety.

Some of his companions looked on him sorrowfully and reproachfully,
though only half in earnest. Coach Haynes spoke his mind quietly but
crisply. “Bad generalship, Captain Harven,” he said, as Stuart found
his feet again. “Too risky. You should have punted.”

Stuart, knowing all that quite as well as the coach, scowled and
bit his lip. The coach, about to add something further, caught his
expression and wisely changed his mind.

The second chose to kick-off and the pigskin floated high and far
toward the first team goal. Stuart claimed it and got under it near
the ten-yard line. The catch was not a difficult one. The other backs,
never doubting that he would make it, sped ahead to form interference.
The ball fell straight into Stuart’s hands and as straightly bounded
out again. He tried to get it on the bounce as it went on toward the
goal line, failed, and threw himself on it. Again misfortune met
him. The ball somehow wiggled loose and a second team end, who had
marvelously evaded the interference, crashed down across Stuart and
captured the pigskin.

From the seven yards the second carried over in four plays, choosing
Towne as a point of attack. Although she failed at goal, the second
had, beyond any possible doubt, won the game in the first six minutes
of play, and she rejoiced exceedingly and made herself most obnoxious;
so much so that Billy Littlefield came to blows with a second team
end and was yanked out by a stern referee. Stuart, sore and silent,
followed back to position to find Millard Wheaton awaiting him. “Wheat”
was trying hard to look regretful, but the attempt wasn’t very
successful.

“What do you want?” asked Stuart darkly.

“You’re off,” said Wheaton. “Sorry, Cap.”

“Get out of here!” Stuart pulled his head guard on with a jerk.

Wheaton, at a loss, turned to Tasker, but Howdy only shrugged. Of
course his duty was to call the referee’s attention to Stuart’s
refusal, but――well, Stuart was captain of the team, and so, after a
moment’s indecision, Wheaton trotted back to the side-line. Then Mr.
Haynes walked out with Wheaton in tow. Stuart, seeing, went toward them.

“Captain Harven,” said the coach firmly but quietly, “I sent Wheaton in
to take your place.”

“I intend to stay in, sir,” answered Stuart doggedly. “This is a
practice game and a boob play or two don’t matter.”

“I think differently. Kindly do as I say. We can discuss the matter
later.”

“No, sir! I’m captain and I’m within my rights, Mr. Haynes. I’m going
to play this period out. It wasn’t fair to work us to-day, anyhow. Some
of us are done up. If we make mistakes it’s because we oughtn’t to be
here at all. You can put Wheat in the next period if you like, but he
doesn’t play quarter now.”

Mr. Haynes looked a bit white, but he only nodded and turned on his
heel. Then: “Come on, Wheaton,” he said, and led the way back to the
side line. Stuart was aware that the other fellows were very carefully
avoiding looking at him. Harmon broke the silence and the tension with
a cheerful “Come on, First! Let’s get ’em!” and the whistle piped.

Stuart played the twelve-minute period out, as he had said he would,
and played very raggedly, although there were no more glaring mistakes.
When the teams went off, second still holding her 13 to 0 lead, Stuart
tried hard to look nonchalant and smiling and accepted the blanket that
The Laird tossed him with a joking remark. The Laird, though, shook his
head gently. Stuart froze up and watched the rest of the scrimmage in
silence.

He had plenty of time for second thought before the final whistle blew
and the first team trailed off to the gymnasium smarting under a 13 to
7 defeat, and in that time he decided that he had, in the accommodating
language of the baseball diamond, “pulled a boner.” He firmly believed
himself to have been justified in his refusal to accept dismissal
from the line-up. That didn’t trouble him. His mistake had been, he
concluded, in insisting on his right to remain. It would have been
better in every way had he protested with dignity and gone off the
field. He would have had the sympathy of his team mates, avoided the
possible charge of insubordination and added further evidence of the
coach’s high-handedness. As it was, he had the uncomfortable conviction
that he had made himself appear ridiculous rather than heroic. These
reflections were no aid to composure and peace of mind, and, although
he wanted to convey the impression that the incident had left him
undisturbed, no one was deceived by his studied attempt at nonchalance.
He took pains not to avoid Mr. Haynes, but did not seek to reopen the
discussion. For his part, the coach, rather graver than usual, seemed
to have dismissed the matter from his mind.

Stuart went back to Lacey from the gymnasium and recounted the incident
to Neil. He treated it lightly, even flippantly, but under the
lightness was an unconscious note of defiance. He didn’t expect Neil
to altogether approve of his action, but it was typical of him that
he always did tell Neil things whether he looked for commendation or
censure. Perhaps this was largely because the other’s judgments, for or
against, were invariably frank and honest. When Stuart had ended, Neil
smiled and shook his head.

“I don’t know what I’m going to do with you, Stuart,” he sighed. “You
do mess things up frightfully!”

“What about others?” asked Stuart in injured tones. “Who started the
trouble to-day?”

“Don’t be a goop,” begged Neil. “If some one shies a brick at you, is
there any reason why you can’t side step it? Whether you realize it
or not, you’ve been trying to make out a case against Mr. Haynes ever
since you got here. Of course, that’s poor business, but if you must
do it, why do everything you can to spoil it? No matter who was in the
right to-day, and I’m not enough of a football man to know, your cue
was instant obedience. Then, if there was any injustice, you’d have
had public opinion on your side. Can’t you see that, you chump? What
happened afterwards?”

“Nothing. He didn’t open his mouth, and so I didn’t.”

“You better, though,” said Neil earnestly. “See him this evening and
make some sort of an apology.”

“I will like fun!” exclaimed Stuart indignantly.

“You’ve got to,” Neil replied firmly. “You can insist all you please on
your rights in the matter, but you must own up that you acted wrongly.
You did, you know. That was a poor example to set the rest of the team,
Stuart.”

The other was glumly, rebelliously silent for a minute. Then: “Of
course I did the wrong thing,” he acknowledged grudgingly. “Seems to
me I’m always doing it where Haynes is concerned. He gets my goat,
confound him! I had a good case against him to-day and I spoiled it,
just as you say. I won’t go over to his rooms and lick his boots, Neil,
but I’ll call him on the telephone after supper.”

Neil considered a moment doubtfully. After all, even that was quite a
concession from Stuart, and so he nodded. “All right, but be decent,
Stuart. Don’t talk haughty.”

“All right, but I won’t apologize: understand that! I’ll say I was
wrong in staying in after he told me to come out, but I _won’t_ say
that I didn’t have a perfect right to!”

But after supper, although Stuart went twice to the telephone
downstairs, Mr. Haynes didn’t respond, and so that near-apology wasn’t
made. There was much talk that evening among the players and even
Stuart’s stanchest upholders could find no good excuse for him. The
best they could do was plead extreme provocation; and even that was
challenged by the opposition. By the next day the school in general had
hold of the story and there were many and varied versions of what had
actually happened. The most sensational story had it that blows had
been exchanged between coach and captain. The school in general stood
loyally behind the captain, for, especially amongst the younger boys,
he was looked up to as a hero. Junior class fellows viewed his progress
across the campus that morning with an admiration so evident as to make
Stuart uncomfortable.

Returning from a recitation at eleven, he found an envelope in his box
bearing the inscription, “Manning School, Safford, Conn. Committee
on Athletics.” Communications from the Athletic Faculty, usually on
routine matters, were no unusual affairs, and Stuart slipped the
letter into his pocket with no disturbing premonition and only slight
curiosity. In fact, it was not until he had been in Number 12 for
several minutes and had settled down to dig for an impending hour
test in English that he recalled the missive and dug it from his
pocket. Since Neil was at a recitation, Stuart had the room to himself,
something that he was later very thankful for. He made nothing of the
letter at the first reading, for incredulity turned the phrases into a
meaningless jumble. Then, a puzzled frown between his eyes, he read it
again.

    Mr. Stuart Harven,
      Captain Manning School Football Team,
        12 Lacey Hall.

    Dear Sir:

    At a meeting of the Committee on Athletics held this evening
    the following Resolution was passed:

    “Whereas, in the judgment of this Committee, Captain Stuart
    Harven has shown himself unable or unwilling to act in
    coöperation with the Coach in the conduct of the affairs of the
    Football Team, which fact this Committee considers detrimental
    to the welfare of the Team, it is

    “Resolved that Captain Stuart Harven be directed to appear
    before this Committee at eight o’clock on the evening of October
    26 and show cause why his resignation as captain should not be
    requested for the good of the Team; and that a copy of this
    Resolution be delivered to Captain Stuart Harven.”

                                  For the Committee on Athletics,
                                       Chas. E. Dodge, Secretary.




                             CHAPTER VIII

                        A NEW LEADER IS CHOSEN


Amazement slowly gave way to anger. The thing was so unexpected that
for a while he could not believe it, and the idea that it was a hoax
presented itself. But that theory vanished speedily and he faced the
truth. A sense of insult, of degradation mastered him and he crumpled
the letter into a ball and hurled it to the floor. He passed a bad ten
minutes, his wrath encompassing Coach Haynes and the whole Athletic
Faculty. Of the latter, though, it was the student members, Jud McColl
and Stearns Wilson, on whom his anger fell chiefly. They pretended to
be his friends. He could find excuses for the coach, for the coach
made no secret of his hostility, but McColl and Stearns had literally
betrayed him.

Finally he rescued the letter and smoothed it out and reread it. It
was plain enough, he told himself. They wanted him to go before them
and eat humble pie, perhaps apologize to Haynes! What they did not
want was his resignation. No matter if he had failed, from their point
of view, as a captain, he was still invaluable as a player. There was
no one to take his place at quarter. In spite of their bluff, they
couldn’t do without him, and they knew it! And he knew it! Stuart
laughed mirthlessly. Well, they’d see! If they expected penitence and
apologies they’d be fooled! He’d call their bluff!

He selected a sheet of school paper and went about the matter very
calmly. When it was finished his reply was a model of conciseness and,
he hoped, dignity:

    Mr. Stuart Harven acknowledges the receipt of the Committee’s
    communication of yesterday and respectfully tenders his
    resignation as Captain of the Football Team.

He considered delivering it personally at the Office but in the end put
a stamp on the envelope and dropped it into the box in front of Manning
as he hurried to his next class. He was no longer angry. He was excited
instead, excited and triumphant. He wondered how the Committee would
manage to crawl out of the hole he had placed them in, and he chuckled
as he pictured the surprise and chagrin with which his letter would be
received. That the resignation would be accepted never entered Stuart’s
mind. He might have to make concessions, but if there was any crawling
done, the Ath. Fac. would do it! He went into the class room in a very
cheerful frame of mind.

It was Neil who caused him his first qualms of doubt. Neil was
distressed and strangely pessimistic. “You must get that resignation
back before it reaches them,” he declared earnestly. “If you go to the
post-office――――”

Stuart shrugged. “You can’t get a letter back like that. Besides, I
don’t want to. I’ve called their bluff, now let them get out of it the
best way they can!”

“But, Stuart, suppose they don’t want to! Suppose you’ve played into
their hand?”

“What do you mean, played into their hand? You don’t think they
really want my resignation, do you?” Stuart laughed in ridicule. “Not
much! Not unless they think I’d give up the captaincy and go right on
playing. And if they do think that they’ve got a fine big surprise
coming to them!”

“I don’t know,” Neil shook his head troubledly, “Mr. Haynes is against
you, remember, and――――”

“So are Jud and Stearns Wilson, and I’m not likely to forget it,
either,” interrupted Stuart in an ugly tone. “But if it came to a
show-down I guess there are plenty of fellows on the team――――”

“Stuart, if the Committee accepts your resignation the players won’t
have anything to say about it! Don’t you see that? They couldn’t do
anything if they wanted to. If you’d only waited and talked it over
first! I――I’m awfully afraid you’ve messed things up again!”

“Oh, piffle! You wait and see, old man. They’ll be talking mighty
small to-morrow. Jud McColl knows me well enough to tell them that I’m
not the sort to be kicked out of the captaincy and then keep right on
playing for them! Haynes knows it, too. He’s no fool, if he does act
it.”

But in spite of his pretended assurance Stuart began to wonder
secretly if he had, after all, made a mistake. Haynes had proved
pretty conclusively that he stood strong with the Committee. He began
to consider what would happen if they did the impossible thing and
accepted the resignation. Short of inciting the team to mutiny, he
realized, with a sinking sensation, that there wasn’t anything he could
do! And, for that matter, it might be that the number of fellows on
the team who would stand by him would be too small to cause anything
approaching a mutiny. And, besides that, Stuart wasn’t sure that he
would want a mutiny. That would be going too far. It would play hob
with the team and, no matter how it resulted, would set them back
badly. After all, even though the confounded bunch of old women that
called themselves the Committee on Athletics didn’t seem to believe it,
the success of the team was first in his thoughts! Then he banished
doubts. Neil was always more or less of a pessimist. Of course, maybe
it might have been wiser to have waited and talked it over a bit first,
but it was mighty unlikely that the Ath. Fac. would cut off its nose to
save its face, or, put differently, would lose a star quarterback to
retain its dignity!

There was no apparent knowledge of the Committee’s letter among the
fellows on the field that afternoon. Evidently the matter was still
a secret. Coach Haynes was the same as usual, formally polite to
Stuart, and the unpleasant incident of yesterday seemed to have been
forgotten. Stuart went at his work with a resolution to emphasize his
value to the team and played the game with all the dash and brilliancy
of which he was capable. It was one of his good days and he made the
most of it. “Old Unabridged’s” pets were torn asunder and trampled on,
out-generaled and out-fought, and the first walked off the field at the
end with a 17 to 0 victory.

“Now,” said Stuart to himself, “let them go ahead and fire me!”

His high spirits, though, failed to lighten Neil’s gravity.

Jack came over to Number 12 that evening and he and Stuart talked a
good deal of football and a good deal of other things, and, apparently
there was no cloud in the sky. But Neil didn’t have much to say, and
when rallied by Jack only smiled and answered that he was far too much
awed by so much brilliance to venture remarks of his own. Stuart,
realizing the real reason for his roommate’s quietness, had brief
moments of uneasiness.

Oddly, when morning came, he awoke with the feeling of uneasiness
vastly increased, and, although he told himself that there was no cause
for anxiety, he remained nervous all during breakfast and through his
first two classes, and it was with positive relief that, at half-past
eleven, he returned to Lacey and spied a letter in his box. Up in
Number 12, he hesitated for a long minute before he slit the envelope.
When at last he did so and read the contents his face paled. After that
he sat for many more minutes, the letter in his hand and his eyes fixed
broodingly on the floor.

It was a very polite missive, almost cordial in spite of its brevity.
It thanked Mr. Stuart Harven for his communication, appreciated his
spirit of loyalty to the school, accepted his resignation with regret
for the necessity for doing so and hoped that the incident would not
be allowed to affect his interest in the Team’s success or impair his
usefulness. When Neil came in later Stuart had recovered his poise. He
handed the letter to Neil with a smile that, if it didn’t deceive Neil,
established the attitude which Stuart was to hold for some time. Neil
said nothing for a moment after he had read the epistle. When he did
speak he only said gravely: “I’m sorry, Stuart.”

Stuart shrugged. “Why, so am I, in a way,” he replied with seeming
candor. “I guessed wrong, and no fellow likes to make mistakes. As for
the rest of it, resigning and all that, why, I’m not sure it isn’t a
good thing, Neil. Trying to get along with Haynes is a good deal of a
job, and the next fellow will find it out. And I’ll miss playing, I
suppose, for awhile.”

Neil nodded. After a moment he said tentatively: “This oughtn’t to stop
you from playing, Stuart.”

Stuart laughed shortly and mockingly. “Oh, of course not! I ought to
keep right on, eh? Maybe I could get a job lugging the water pail!
Don’t be a coot, Neil! If I’m not good enough for captain, I’m not good
enough to play quarterback.”

“How about the team, though? This isn’t going to make you want Pearsall
to win, is it?”

“No, but they won’t need me. Wheaton’s a good man, and once I’m out of
his way he’s bound to be a lot better.” Stuart didn’t sound convincing
even to himself, though, and he added: “Anyway, I’ve got some pride,
Neil, and I’m switched if I’ll go back there as a private in the ranks
to be grinned at by every whippersnapper of a fourth-string substitute
and lorded over by Haynes! No, by golly, they’ve got what they wanted
and now they can go ahead and make good. All I say is, whoever the new
captain is I pity him!”

That ended the subject for a while, for during the next few days it was
carefully avoided by both.

The School heard the news that afternoon, and, as was to be expected,
excitement prevailed. On the whole, however, the thing created less
sensation than Stuart, for one, looked for. Among the players sides
were taken and argument raged, but Stuart’s partisans were vastly in
the minority, and if he had secretly hoped for anything approaching a
protest against his resignation he was disappointed. His own attitude
in public was one of smiling, half-contemptuous amusement. He made no
charges in words, no matter what his manner expressed. A fair sample
of his explanations to those who questioned, was his reply to Greg
Trenholme, the baseball captain.

“I just couldn’t get along,” he said. “There was only one thing to do
and I did it.”

Of course there were many who surmised that Stuart’s resignation had
not been offered solely without suggestion from the Committee on
Athletics and who freely published that surmise, but the truth of it
was never established. Stuart dropped out of the team and remained away
from the field, and what news he had of football affairs he received
from Jack. Jack was plainly sympathetic and sorry, but Stuart couldn’t
help feeling after the first few days that Jack was accepting the
situation with surprising equanimity. The fact was that the unfortunate
incident once accepted, Jack’s principal sensation was one of relief.
Affairs had been going far more smoothly at the field since Stuart’s
departure. The feeling of tension had disappeared, and, with Coach
Haynes alone in command, the players knew where they stood. Of course
Stuart was missed at quarter, and there was no one in sight who
promised to more than half fill his shoes, but Jack’s loyalty to his
friend couldn’t disguise for him the fact that so far as the welfare
of the team was concerned Stuart’s absence was more of a blessing than
a misfortune. He, like Neil and several others, had suggested that the
loss of the captaincy need not keep Stuart off the team, but with a
similar result.

“Nothing doing,” laughed Stuart. “When I quit, I quit. When Haynes
appoints a new captain you won’t need me.”

“What’s Haynes got to do with choosing a captain?” asked Jack.

“Why, isn’t he going to?” asked the other innocently. “Who is, then?”

“The players, of course,” answered Jack. “There’s a meeting called for
to-morrow night. It’ll probably be Howdy Tasker.”

“What’s the matter with you getting it?” asked Stuart.

“Me? Gosh, I couldn’t captain the team!”

Two days later, Stuart heard the result of the meeting. “Nobody
would accept,” said Jack gloomily. “We had Howdy nominated and he
refused point-blank. Then we tried to elect Joe Cutts and then Billy
Littlefield, and they lay down on us. So――――”

“Weren’t you nominated?” asked Stuart.

Jack nodded. “Yes, but I wouldn’t make any kind of a captain. Well, it
ended up with no election. Now, they say, the Ath. Fac. will appoint
some one. No one seems to want it, though.”

“You were a chump not to accept, Jack. Why didn’t you?”

Jack looked uncomfortable. “I told you, didn’t I?” he growled.
“Besides, I wouldn’t want to take it when――after you――――”

Stuart laughed. “I thought that was it,” he said. “Well, you should
have taken it, old man. I’d rather see you captain than any one. If
any one could get along with Haynes it’s you, I guess. If you get the
chance again you take it and stop being a silly ass.”

Jack shook his head, “I don’t believe I’d want it,” he muttered.

That was Sunday morning. Monday Jack sought Stuart again just before
dinner. “Look here,” he began, plainly embarrassed, “they’ve gone and
done it, the crazy jays.”

“Done what?”

“Appointed me captain. The Ath. Fac. I got word half an hour ago. Isn’t
that the limit?”

“I don’t see anything to be insulted about,” answered Stuart. He tried
to sound cordial, but he didn’t succeed. “You’d better accept, I’d say.”

“Fellows tell me I’ve got to,” muttered Jack. “I’d a heap rather not.
It――it seems sort of rotten. I mean toward you.”

Stuart laughed shortly. “Don’t mind me, Jack. I’m out of it completely.
You wouldn’t do me any good by refusing.”

“You’re quite sure you wouldn’t mind?” asked Jack anxiously.

“Absolutely, old son. Go to it!” Stuart managed to get the right note
that time, and Jack caught it and smiled his relief.

“Well, then, I suppose I’d better,” he said. “I’d a lot rather you
still had the job, though, Stuart, and I’d hate mightily to take it
if――if you didn’t like it. You know that, eh?”

“Sure!” Stuart did know it, and appreciation of Jack’s loyalty made the
word sound genuine. “Some one’s got to be captain of the team, Jack,
and it might as well be you. In fact, you deserve it, old man, and I’m
glad you’ve got it!”

And he really thought he was glad, but after Jack had gone off,
relieved and quite cheerful, he found himself wondering how much of
his friend’s reluctance had been real and how much feigned. Certainly
he couldn’t blame Jack for wanting the captaincy. Any fellow would be
glad of the honor. Of course some chaps might have refused under the
circumstances, but perhaps not many. Friendship didn’t mean an awful
lot, after all, to the average fellow, and possibly he ought to give
credit to Jack for asking him about it before deciding: if, that is,
Jack hadn’t already made up his mind to accept the captaincy before
coming to him! Stuart’s lip curled a little. He guessed Jack wouldn’t
have let the chance get away from him whether he――Stuart――had liked it
or lumped it!




                              CHAPTER IX

                             OUT OF A JOB


Stuart borrowed some clubs from Fred Locker and tried to interest
himself in golf and, for several afternoons, with Neil swinging
along beside him on his crutches, haunted the links. But impatience
and ineptness soon proved too much for a lukewarm enthusiasm and
that means of passing the time was discarded. Stuart relied on Neil
almost pathetically that first week, and the latter good-naturedly
put himself at the disposal of his chum and tried his best to be of
service, neglecting his studies on many occasions and not infrequently
getting pretty tired in accompanying the other over the roads or across
fields. As nimble as he was, the crutches hurt cruelly after a while,
and Stuart, trying, it seemed, to escape from the sounds of punted
balls and the cries of the players on the gridiron, set a lively pace
sometimes.

Stuart’s own studies suffered, too, and they could ill afford to
since football duties had left him in none too good a standing. On
Friday Mr. Moffit summoned him to his study in Holton and Stuart went
over there dejectedly that evening after supper. However, the English
instructor didn’t prove formidable. He managed to make the boy talk
about the loss of the captaincy and, perhaps because he was tired of
pretending, Stuart made a clean breast of the affair, from first to
last, finding his audience sympathetic and obtaining much relief from
the confession.

“Harven,” asked Mr. Moffit when Stuart had ended, “do you recall a
conversation we had here one afternoon before school started?” Mr.
Moffit’s eyes twinkled. “We discussed, among other things amenability.
I think some one had charged you with a lack of that quality, and we
denied the aspersion with the contempt it deserved and substituted an
over supply of self-dependence.”

Stuart nodded gloomily.

“Oh, well, that gets us nowhere, does it? One of the most puerile
pursuits that the human creature indulges in is weeping on the graves
of dead actions. There’s nothing in it, Harven. Just clang the cemetery
gate, stick your hands in your pockets, pucker your lips and whistle
bravely. And then tackle the next job. Of course we do learn by past
mistakes――at least we ought to and some of us do――but there’s nothing
to be gained by beating the breast and putting ashes in the hair. Now
then, what are you doing?”

“Doing?” asked Stuart vaguely.

“Yes. You’re out of football. What’s taking its place? I’m fairly
certain it’s not English A!”

Stuart smiled sheepishly. “I’m sorry about this morning, sir. I――I
didn’t even look at the stuff yesterday.”

“You don’t have to tell me that,” laughed Mr. Moffit. “Well, if it
isn’t study that’s occupying your mind and time, what is it?”

“I guess nothing much. I’ve been walking around. And I tried golf,
but――――”

“There! I knew you had some intelligence, Harven!” the instructor
beamed. “Golf ought to be just the thing for you.”

Stuart shook his head. “I’m no good at it, sir.”

“Who is? I’m probably the poorest player that ever swung a club. But I
don’t let that worry me. Not too much, anyhow. I promise myself that
some day I’ll know so much golf that I’ll have to write a book about
it to keep from bursting! You’re eighteen――Seventeen, is it? Well, of
course you’re starting perhaps ten years too late, but you’ve a good
chance to make good. My misfortune is that I never heard of the game
until I was nearly thirty. Got any clubs?”

“No, sir, I borrowed some from a fellow.”

“Take mine then. They are in the closet over there doing nothing. I
hate to open the door and get the reproachful looks they give me! It
may be imagination, Harven, but sometimes when I awake at night I could
swear that I hear them whimpering. Take them and use them. Break them,
if you like. I’m sure a golf club would rather be broken than idle!”

“Thanks, sir, but I don’t believe I’ll try it any more just now. I――I
don’t seem to be able to get my mind on it.”

Mr. Moffit sighed. “You’re right then. Don’t try golf when you can’t
give it every thought. It’s divided attention on the links that has
enriched the men who make golf balls. Well, if not golf, what then?”

Stuart shook his head again. “I’ll find something, sir. I mean to try
basket ball later.”

“Don’t wait until later, Harven. Find something at once and put your
heart into it. Do you row?”

“No, sir, not much. I can scull a bit.”

“A pleasant diversion, but not absorbing, I fear. Well, think it over
and tackle something. And come and see me about the middle of next week
and tell me what it is. Will you?”

“Yes, sir. Thank you.”

“Good! And just one more thing, Harven. When you go out of here I want
to see you put your shoulders back and hear you whistle!” Mr. Moffit
was on his feet and holding his hand out. Apparently the interview was
at an end, but the subject of English A had been scarcely touched on,
and as Stuart shook hands he said:

“I’ll try to do better in English, Mr. Moffit. I’m sorry――――”

“Bless you, I didn’t ask you over here to talk English to you,”
interrupted the other heartily. “I was after the cause, Harven――the
effect was apparent. Come out from under the weeping willows and hit
the sunshine trail, my boy! That’s the first thing. Then find something
to do and do it hard. After that English A and all the other courses
will pretty nearly look after themselves! Good night.”

Outside, Stuart heard Mr. Moffit’s window go up and the instructor’s
voice called: “Harven! You’re not doing it, you know! Shoulders back
and whistle, you duffer!”

Stuart laughed and obeyed.

He met Coach Haynes only twice or thrice in that week. He made no
effort to avoid him, but their paths seldom crossed. When they did
meet they spoke politely. Rather to his surprise, Stuart found that
his enmity toward the coach was leavened by a large admixture of
respect. The coach, he reasoned, was an open and avowed foe who had,
when all was said, fought fairly. Some day not far distant Stuart
meant to go to him and tell him just exactly what he thought of him,
but until that delectable moment he would treat him with the dignity
and respect due one warrior from another. But toward the Committee
on Athletics, faculty and student members alike, he cherished a dark
wrath. Especially toward Judson McColl and Stearns Wilson was this
anger directed. They, as it seemed to Stuart, were veritable snakes
in the grass. He got a good deal of unconscious comfort from that
anger and suffered a distinct loss when he was forced to abandon it.
That happened one morning when toward the end of the week, he met
McColl face to face in front of the library and, instead of returning
McColl’s friendly “Hi, Stuart!” gave him a coldly contemptuous look and
passed silently on. Almost any other fellow but the President of the
Student Council would have shrugged his shoulders and thereafter let
Stuart alone, but McColl wasn’t the sort to do that; which is, perhaps,
one reason why he was President of the Student Council and of Manning
Society. Unexpectedly, Stuart felt himself grasped by the shoulders and
pushed gently but very, very firmly against the library wall. Judson
McColl regarded him good-humoredly yet sternly.

“Let’s get this right, Stuart,” he said quietly. “Why the haughty brow
and the frozen glare? Come across, old man.”

Stuart came across promptly, glad of the chance, and McColl heard him
out patiently. Then, however, he told Stuart things that fairly took
the ground from under Stuart’s feet. “Stearns and I were against the
resignation business from the start,” he said, “but we had the three
faculty members against us right along. We didn’t make much of a fight
against that first resolution, for we thought it might be a good thing
if you came and talked it over with the Committee. Where you made your
mistake was not doing it, Stuart. When you sent your resignation in
Stearns and I did everything we could to get the Committee to lay it
on the table and appoint a sub-committee to see you, but Pierson and
Wallace and Dodge wouldn’t stand for it. We called Coach Haynes in that
evening and he was flatly against accepting the resignation, but――――”

“_What?_” exclaimed Stuart.

“Yes, Haynes told us plainly that we shouldn’t accept your resignation
until we’d made another effort to smooth things over with you. But the
faculties were on their dignity, and Pierson said you’d had your chance
and had refused it. When it came to a vote Stearns and I were two
against three and we lost out.”

“I didn’t know that,” muttered Stuart.

“You know it now, son,” answered Jud McColl dryly. “It’s a pretty
good idea not to go off half-cocked, Stuart.” Then McColl laughed and
slapped Stuart on the shoulder. “Buck up and smile!”

Stuart managed the smile, but it wasn’t very hearty. “Sorry I made such
an ass of myself, Jud,” he mumbled. “Thanks for――for what you did.”

“You’re welcome, son. Sorry we couldn’t do more. If I’d had any idea
you were going to come back with that resignation like that I’d have
been around to see you. It wouldn’t have done any harm, you know, if
you’d met us halfway instead of flying off the handle like that. What
was the big idea?”

“Oh, I don’t know.” Stuart shook his head dejectedly. “I thought it was
Haynes’s doing and I was sore.”

“Well, of course, Haynes did put the matter before the Committee, but
he only asked to have things cleared up so the team would get along
better. I don’t believe for a moment that he wanted you out, old man.
Look here, why don’t you call it an even break and start over again?
Why not go out and help them along, Stuart?”

“Oh, I guess they don’t need me,” muttered the other. “Besides, I’d be
off my game.”

“Well, think it over and see if you can’t forget your hurt feelings. So
long!”

Perhaps it was unfortunate that, fifty yards further on, passing
Sawyer, Stuart almost collided with Steve Le Gette, and that to Stuart
it seemed that Le Gette’s startled look changed, as he sheered aside,
into an expression of malicious triumph. In any event, the chance
meeting drove out of Stuart’s mind any effect caused by McColl’s
advice. He certainly wouldn’t go back to the team as long as Le Gette
was there to sneer, he told himself!

Until three or half-past in the afternoons Stuart got along fairly
well, for there was plenty to occupy his mind, but when the hour of
football practice arrived he felt horribly lost. When you’ve been doing
a certain thing at a certain time each day for a long period you can’t
help missing that thing when it’s no longer there for you to do. Stuart
tried studying, but the silence of the well-nigh empty hall oppressed
him. Besides, the hours between three and six of a fine October day
were never meant to be wasted in poring over the pages of a text book!
Even Neil realized that and, though he would offer to remain in Number
12 and keep Stuart company, the latter always refused to allow him
to do so. Neil’s favorite retreat in good weather was a bench beside
the tennis courts, or, when there happened to be a match in progress,
the summit of the short ladder, from where he gravely made some such
announcement as; “The games are three――one. Mr. Spudkins leads.”
Several times he induced Stuart to accompany him to the courts, but
the football player didn’t entertain Neil’s enthusiasm for tennis and
after looking on through half a dozen games he got bored and restless.
He had really tried very hard to find interest in golf, but as he had
never played enough to more than learn the modus operandi he failed. He
might have found a place in one of the four-oared shells without much
trying, for he was a fair hand with a sweep and there were always from
three to ten dormitory and class crews in training during the fall, but
the plain truth is that he wanted to play football and didn’t want to
do anything else. Even to have gone to the field and looked on would
have been better than nothing, but pride forbade that. He was surely
at a loose end those days, and the fact that every afternoon for a
week provided ideal football weather made it seem that even Nature was
taking a hand in his chastening. But on the day of his enlightening
talk with Judson McColl chance offered him a solution of one difficulty.

He stopped at the bulletin board in the corridor of Manning and, for
want of a better way in which to pass a couple of minutes, read some of
the notices. The fact that Sawyer, 22 Meigs, had lost a gray sweater,
or that Lumkin, 8 Byers, wanted to buy a second-hand typewriter didn’t
engross him. Neither did a plaintive call for candidates for the
soccer football team. He was in a mood to bear with splendid equanimity
the failure of Sawyer to recover his sweater, the inability of Lumkin
to acquire a typewriter and the utter collapse of the soccer team.
But a moment later he came across an announcement that did excite his
interest. It was already a week or more old and it announced the date
of the Fall Handicap Meeting and stated that entries would be received
up to and including November 4. The notice was signed “Charles E.
Dodge, 2 Sawyer Hall.” Mr. Dodge was the Physical Director, and, with
The Laird, attended to the training of the track and field candidates.

Stuart reread the announcement and then frowned thoughtfully. In his
junior year he had won third place in the Spring Track Meet in the
mile and had just failed of capturing fourth in the half. Last year he
had won his place on the eleven and lost interest in the cinder path.
But somewhere there was a pair of spiked canvas shoes with his name
lettered on the lining in faded ink, and there was time enough for all
the practice he wanted. He didn’t believe for a moment that he could
finish the mile or get placed in the half mile, but it wouldn’t be
bad fun trying, and, which was really his reason for considering the
idea, the running track surrounded the second team gridiron, and from
the second team gridiron one could see very nicely what was going on
in first team circles! In other words, while he wouldn’t have gone to
the first team field and watched practice for anything, he could see no
reason why it shouldn’t be perfectly permissible to take up track work
and sometimes, in the pauses of practicing starts or after a jog around
the cinders, cast an occasional uninterested glance over toward the
big team. The more he considered the plan the better it looked to him,
and so, without more ado, he walked over to Sawyer Hall, discovered
Mr. Dodge in his study and put his name down for the mile run and the
880 yards. Mr. Dodge was in a chatty mood and Stuart had to stay and
talk much longer than he wanted to. The Physical Director did not,
however, refer to Stuart’s resignation from the football captaincy, and
so Stuart forgave him for his loquaciousness and tried hard to become
interested in track matters and the chances of capturing the Dual Meet
with Pearsall next May. Mr. Dodge observed, evidently quite sincerely,
that he hoped the team would have Stuart’s services when that time
arrived.

When he told Neil that evening the latter was clearly puzzled. “Why,”
he said doubtfully, “I dare say you’ll get some fun out of it, Stuart,
but you’ll find yourself in pretty punk condition, I’m afraid. And
there’s only a few days left for practice.”

“Oh, I don’t expect to do anything,” answered the other. “I’ll probably
last about two laps in the mile and finish last in the other, but I’m
not doing anything just now, and a fellow ought to keep in some sort of
condition. I may go in for basket ball after recess. Or maybe hockey. I
wonder where those running shoes of mine got to.”

The next afternoon he was out on the track. The Laird, who found time
from duties with the football team to give a few minutes daily to the
track men, viewed his appearance with surprised approval and warned him
against overwork. Stuart dryly assured him that he had no reason for
uneasiness, and The Laird puckered his brows and nodded. Evidently the
new candidate for track honors wasn’t to be considered very seriously.
Mr. Dodge, however, appeared to entertain no doubts on the subject of
Stuart’s earnestness and, when he arrived to look after the candidates,
displayed an embarrassing and even annoying interest in the newcomer.
If only to keep from disappointing Mr. Dodge, Stuart was forced for
several succeeding afternoons to make a plausible pretense of training,
something that rather interfered with his observation of the first
team practice. Of course, he found himself hideously out of form and
suspected that some of the other candidates were viewing his presence
on the track with a mixture of sympathy and amusement. But he didn’t
mind that so very much. What he would have minded was the knowledge
that Coach Haynes and the football fellows were suspecting the real
reason for his proximity to the first team gridiron. But it is scarcely
likely that any of them, unless, possibly, it was Jack, gave any
thought to the matter.

After the third day on the cinders Stuart found that a little of his
former speed and stamina had returned to him, although he still doubted
his ability to give any of his competitors a real race in either of
the events for which he was entered, even if he had been inclined to.
Judging, however, by the time he spent on the track and beside it, you
would have thought him a most determined candidate, for he was always
one of the first to arrive and he never left until after the football
men had gone from the gridiron. If he spent most of his time sitting
around in his bathrobe and looking across the field, that was his own
affair. Hadn’t The Laird warned him against overwork?




                               CHAPTER X

                             THE HANDICAPS


The Fall Handicap Meet took place on a Thursday afternoon, and
practically the whole school turned out in the rôle of contestant,
official or onlooker. Of course there were some not present; the
baseball players, who were drawing to the end of fall practice; a few
tennis enthusiasts; a few others who preferred the river to the grand
stand; and the football men. But of the latter not all remained away,
for a handful had been given leave to take part in the events. Le
Gette and Leonard were there to toy with the shot and hammer, Earnest
Lowe was on hand to compete in both the pole vault and the sprints,
and there were as many others who had changed canvas for “shorts.”
Over fifty lads had entered, the Junior Class being rather better
represented than any of the others. Some thirty more fellows were on
hand in various official capacities, and among these was Neil Orr who,
as usual on such occasions, was one of the timers. Naturally, there
weren’t very many left to act as audience.

The afternoon was clear and there was warmth in the sunlight, but
a cool breeze blew down the stretch and kept the gaudily colored
bathrobes of the entrants wrapped tightly about lightly-clothed bodies.
When Stuart reached the track a little after three the field events
were already under way, and lithe, white-clad figures were busy at
the vaulting and jumping standards. He could see, too, the big form
of Steve Le Gette poised momentarily like a statue ere he sent the
shot away. Stuart’s first event was the half mile, and that was set
for three-forty, and so, clutching his robe closely about his bare
legs, he seated himself on the turf beside Tom Hanson. Tom, excused
from football work for the afternoon, was entered for the 100 and 220
events. Half a dozen other contestants were in the group, watching the
trials of the 100-yards hurdles which had just started.

“Didn’t know you were in this game,” observed Hanson as Stuart joined
the group. “What’s yours, Cap? Quarter mile?”

Tom had used the title from force of habit and probably didn’t know
that he had used it, which Stuart realized after he had shot a quick
glance at the other’s smiling face. Stuart explained that he was down
for the half mile and the mile.

“Haven’t done much running lately, have you?” Tom asked.

“Not much. Won’t to-day, probably. Thought I’d just like to keep my
hand in, you know.”

“Meaning your legs,” chuckled Tom. “Well, you’ll have plenty of company
in your events, I guess; especially the mile. About every junior who
has two good legs thinks he’s a miler. I know, for I did myself when I
came. Ran fourteenth in a field of thirteen, or something like that,
and then The Laird got me to try the sprints. Mighty glad he did, too,
for it was only the fact that I could manage the hundred in ten flat
that got me on the football team. That was last year. Remember?”

Stuart nodded. “Certainly do, Tom. That was some run of yours in the
Forest Hill game. Eighty-five yards, wasn’t it?”

“Eighty, to be truthful. Or half a yard more, maybe. It was a funny
piece of luck. I’d been sitting on the bench ever since the season
started and hadn’t been in a game. Fair enough, too, for all I could do
was punt a bit.”

“How about run?” laughed Stuart.

“Well, yes, I could sprint, but I mean I wasn’t much use as far as
football stuff went. That day they laid Pitkin out cold in the first
quarter, if you remember, and then Ernie got a kick in the head and for
some reason or other Coach picked on me. That was in the third quarter,
close to the end of it, and the ball was about seven yards from our
goal.”

“Yes, and third down, too, with only two to go,” added Stuart grimly.
“Forest Hill had us beaten, 9 to 0. Anyway, we all thought so.”

“So did the coach,” chuckled Tom Hanson. “Anyway, he just told me
that here was a good chance to improve my education, and to go on
in at right half. ‘Any orders, sir?’ I asked, mighty knowing. He
looked disgusted and said: ‘No, except you can tell those Little Lord
Fauntleroys out there to bring the ball back when they get through
playing with it!’ He was sore, all right.”

“We all were,” said Stuart reflectively. “Forest Hill had been
making goats of us for three periods and we didn’t seem able to help
ourselves. Gee, we didn’t know enough football to play a night school!”

“Well, that was certainly a lucky fumble,” mused Tom.

“Lucky for us,” grunted Stuart. “Those fellows were so certain of that
touchdown they thought they didn’t have to really play. I saw the ball
jump out of the back’s hands and I tried mighty hard to get through to
it, but Stoughton was in my way. I yelled ‘_Ball! Ball!_’ until I was
hoarse, and no one seemed to hear me. Our line was just pushing and
shoving, like a lot of fellows paid by the day! They didn’t seem to
realize that nothing was hitting them and that the whole Forest Hill
team was chasing the ball! Guess you were the only other chap of our
crowd who saw the blamed thing was loose!”

“I thought I’d never get around to it,” said Tom. “It rolled out to the
left of our line and I had to upset Lever to get him out of my way.
When I got to it luck played right into my hands. It was still bobbing
around, with about six of the enemy grabbing for it. Just as I edged in
it must have hit a pebble, I guess, for blamed if it didn’t hop about
eighteen inches into the air and right into my paws. After that it was
easy.”

“Yes, awfully easy,” said Stuart derisively. “All you had to do was get
clear of the whole Forest Hill mob and run eighty yards!”

“Well, no one troubled me much,” answered Tom.

“N-no, not after you’d got going good, but I had seven varieties of
heart failure for a while. Boy, you surely traveled!”

“Had to! Besides, I was fresh as a daisy. Just as soon as I’d worked
out of the crowd I knew I was all right. There wasn’t one of that bunch
who wasn’t too tired to give me a race.”

“That got us the game,” reflected Stuart. “Gee, but I’ll never forget
how crazy we were when we saw you go over that line! After that we just
got it into our heads that Forest Hill wasn’t such a sight better than
we were, and we tore her up.”

“It looked like we’d started too late, though, until you got off that
forward pass to ‘Mudgard.’ Even then I wouldn’t have bet much on our
winning.”

“No, for Burns had a mean angle to kick from and there was some wind.
Not much, but plenty to queer his aim. At that, if you remember, the
old pigskin hit the bar going over!”

“Sure do,” chuckled Hanson. “I remember lots of things about that game.”

“I’ll bet you do. I guess you remember the way the fellows got up and
cheered you when you came in to supper that night, for one thing!”
Stuart laughed softly. “You certainly were the popular guy that time,
Tom!”

“Oh, shucks! Anyway, that got me started. That’s why I say I’m glad I
didn’t make a miler. If I’d finished that race much better than twelfth
or thirteenth――anyway, last but one――I’d have gone right on running the
distances.”

Stuart nodded. “And we’d have lost a crackajack half, Tom. Glad you
were so rotten. Bet you, though, I’ll do even worse to-day than you
did.”

“Oh, I guess you’ll finish pretty well up,” said Tom. “Of course that
poor fish, Lantwood, will win. Say, I can’t stand that chap.”

“Well, he isn’t horribly attractive to me,” responded the other, “but
I’ve nothing against him. He certainly can run the mile; and the half,
too, for that matter. What have you got against the lad, Tom?”

“Oh, I’ve heard two or three things,” answered Tom vaguely.

“Such as what?”

But Tom shook his head. “I’d rather not tell, Cap. They might not be
true.”

“Then why do you put stock in them?” laughed Stuart.

Tom grinned. “Well, I’m satisfied that they are true, but――oh, well,
they mightn’t be! Say, how did he manage to make Lyceum, anyway?”

“I forget who backed him. He came in with a crowd last January.”
Stuart’s brow darkened. “It is funny that a chap like Austin
Lantwood can make the society and a decent fellow like Neil Orr gets
blackballed! It makes me sick.”

“That’s so,” Tom agreed. “It was rather putrid, I thought. Ever learn
who did it, Cap?”

“I know who did it, all right,” replied Stuart morosely. “And he’ll get
his some day.”

“Well!” Tom viewed his companion speculatively. “Guess it wasn’t the
fellow I thought it might be, then.”

“I don’t know who you thought it was,” said Stuart, “but there’s just
one fellow it could be.”

“Meaning?”

But Stuart’s reply was prevented by the stentorian summons to the
half-milers and he left Tom and went over to the starting line. Jud
McColl was in charge there, and when Stuart had answered to his name
he was sent down to his mark. Only Austin Lantwood stood on scratch.
He was a tall, thin, pale-faced, upper-middler with colorless hair
and light blue eyes. But he had the runner’s build and the muscles of
his stem-like legs worked like oiled machinery under the skin. Tully,
a senior, came next. Then half a dozen more were sprinkled along the
cinders to where Stuart was stationed with three others, evidently
all juniors, somewhat nervous and jumpy. Still others were placed
here and there around the turn. Secretly, Stuart considered that the
handicappers had been more flattering than charitable in awarding him
his allowance. Still, he was so little concerned in his fortunes that
he couldn’t muster up even a mild indignation. After the usual delay, a
pistol went off behind him and he sprang forward. It took six strides
to secure the position next to the rim, and he had to yield place to
one of the juniors to reach it. After that he settled into a fair
pace and determined to hold it, no matter what happened, until he had
reached the end of the backstretch on the second, and last, lap.

There had been nineteen starters and when Stuart was well into the
backstretch on that first lap more than half of the number were ahead
of him. Lantwood didn’t pull up and past until the last turn was
behind. Tully was close at his heels, with Farnsworth, one of Stuart’s
classmates, coming stride for stride with him. The bell rang for the
final lap with the field well bunched in front of the stand. But after
that the runners began to string out. Just past the first turn Lantwood
sprinted and took the lead and Tully fell into third place, with
Farnsworth still keeping pace with him. Stuart was then eighth man, and
until he was well into the backstretch he had some notion of bettering
his place. But the next moment he realized that he would be lucky to
finish, for Lantwood was setting a fast pace and Stuart’s breath was
going fast. Halfway along the back he fell into tenth position, and
from there on he ran in genuine distress. He got back his wind a little
at the last corner, but he was still in bad shape and finished just
about dead-beat in tenth place. Lantwood won in good time by something
over twelve yards, with Tully second, a junior Levering third and
Farnsworth a poor fourth. For a few minutes Stuart was too busy getting
his lungs working as they should to display much interest in the
result. He was convinced that running was not his game; at least that
running the half mile wasn’t; and was seriously considering having his
name scratched for the mile.

But there remained half an hour before that event was to be run, and
maybe he’d better wait and see how he felt. After all, it was sort of
yellow to give up so early. He could at least start. Hanson, who had
won into the finals in both sprints, told him he had run a good race.

“I was watching you, Cap,” said Tom, “and you surely handled yourself
well. Of course your trouble is that you haven’t had enough work. I
wouldn’t wonder, though, if you’d do a heap better in the mile. Guess
the longer distance and the slower pace is your meat. Let some one
pace you for the first three laps, Cap. Then you don’t have to trouble
about your time so much. Get in behind Tully, if you can. He’s a mighty
steady runner and you can depend on him to take you to the fourth lap
in good shape. Old Tully’s a fox at the running game. Maybe he isn’t
as fast as Lantwood, but he always finishes with something left, and a
couple of years from now he will be getting a lot more firsts than that
poor simp.”

“I might almost think, to listen to your talk, Tom, that you didn’t
like Lantwood.”

“Oh, he can run,” answered Tom, “and so can a coyote.”

“Ever see one?”

“No, but I’ll bet he’d look a lot like Lantwood!”

“I won’t bet with you. Guess I’ll go over and see what sort of a
handicap they’re giving me for the mile.”

“Don’t you know?” demanded Tom incredulously. Stuart shook his head.
“Well, you surely are taking a big interest in this business! Are you
quite sure you’ve got your name down?”

Stuart grinned. “Why anticipate trouble, old son?” he asked. “It’s
bound to turn out that they haven’t given me more than half the
handicap I ought to have.”

“Now,” answered the other approvingly, “you sound like a real
ath-a-lete!”

“Thanks. Hope you cop your sprints, Tom. What do you think?”

“Guess I’ll get first in the two-twenty, with any sort of luck, but I’m
not likely to do better than third in the other. Lowe has that cinched,
and Bannister’s a bit better than me at the distance. I’m a rotten
starter. Ernie always has two yards on me at the gun.”

“Well, there’s your call. Let’s see you beat the bunch, Tom.”

Tom’s prediction regarding the 220-yard dash proved correct, for
he finished well ahead of the other three men, but, later in the
afternoon, he was proved to be slightly wrong as to the short sprint.
Instead of finishing third behind Ernest Lowe and Bannister, he
finished second, with Bannister ahead and Lowe behind. For once, as he
confided to Stuart afterwards, he had beaten Ernie away from the mark,
and his satisfaction over that achievement far exceeded his pleasure in
winning the two-twenty! But Tom Hanson was not the only contestant of
the afternoon who succeeded in accomplishing the unexpected.




                              CHAPTER XI

                             THE LAST LAP


“_All out for the mile run! Milers this way!_”

Stuart was glad when the summons came, for the hour was growing late,
the shadows were stretching far across the field and the air was
getting decidedly chill. Even the woolen bathrobe no longer sufficed
to keep the cold from his legs, and only by frequent exercising and
rubbings was he able to hold the muscles from tightening. Many of the
patient spectators were wandering shiveringly down from the stand to
loiter up and down the side of the track. The field events were over,
all save the pole vault. In that Ernest Lowe was still fighting for
first place with Kendall, a lower middler and a horse of the darkest
hue. Already the school record had been broken and there was every
indication that the Dual record would share the same fate.

Neil swung himself over to where Stuart pranced about down beyond the
first turn. “Go get ’em,” he called cheerfully as he approached across
the turf. Stuart shook a gloomy head.

“A swell chance,” he protested. “Look at the handicap! A hundred and
forty yards in a mile run! A lot of good that will be to me! And
there’s Smiley over there with more than two hundred.”

“You’re better than he is, though, aren’t you?” asked Neil.

“Maybe a little,” allowed the other disconsolately. “But I’m too cold
to run now. My muscles are all twisted up. It’s a crazy piece of
business to keep us hanging around like this!”

“I guess the others are just as cold,” said Neil cheerfully. “There’s
quite a bunch of you, isn’t there? Must be nearly twenty.”

“For two cents I’d quit,” muttered Stuart, looking back up the track
that was sprinkled with runners.

“I wouldn’t,” advised Neil. “You may do a lot better than you expect
and be mighty glad you ran.”

“Oh, I’ll do the half, anyway,” replied the other grudgingly as the
warning cry of “_On your mark!_” floated down to him.

“Well, good luck,” said Neil. “Don’t start off too fast.”

Stuart nodded, his face set forward now, his hands tightening on the
cork grips. After a long moment of suspense the pistol rang out and
Stuart jogged into his stride.

A mile race is seldom of much interest to the spectators during the
first two laps. The positions of the contestants change so gradually
that there is no thrill to be had. Infrequently a runner sets out to
run down an opponent, but the spurt is soon over. Stuart overhauled
a junior on the first lap and was himself passed by Candee, a rather
stocky senior who used so short a stride that the wonder was he could
keep it up for the three laps that was generally his limit. At the
starting line shouts of encouragement awaited the runners as they sped
past, and Stuart heard his own name from several lips. It was Tom
Hanson’s voice, however, that sounded loudest.

“Nice running, Cap!” shouted Tom. “Lengthen out a bit!”

Stuart realized the wisdom of that advice, for he had unconsciously
been clipping his stride and running high. He was fairly in the ruck
as he approached the corner. Farnsworth was edging past him and half a
dozen others were strung along in front and behind. Not content with
the pace directly in front of Stuart, Farnsworth ran wide at the
beginning of the turn and then edged in ahead of a long-legged junior
who had not been able to hold his generous handicap. Stuart considered
passing the junior, too, taking pace from Farnsworth, but the result
seemed not worth the effort and he hugged the inside rim and pegged
on. His body was warm enough now and his muscles, in spite of his
earlier fear, were supple and responsive. Also, he had found his wind
nicely. He was, in fact, thoroughly enjoying the battle, and the idea
of quitting at the end of the second lap was forgotten. Farnsworth was
a dozen yards away when Stuart straightened out on the backstretch, and
the long-legged junior was slowing up. Stuart went outside the latter
and slipped back into place beside the four-inch boards. The breeze had
passed and the evening air was still and frostily cold. As he came to
the next turn he saw, across the turf, the face of the old stand, dyed
orange-red in the rays of the sinking sun. All around the quarter-mile
path now the contestants were strung, a few palpably out of the race
and only persevering from motives of pride. He couldn’t see either
Lantwood or Tully without turning his head, but he felt that the former
at least was fairly close behind. He wished that Tully would pass
him, for he had not forgotten Tom Hanson’s advice to tie to the more
experienced miler and hold him to the end of the third lap at least.
But Tully didn’t show up. Stuart promised himself to be ready to go
after him when he did.

It was Lantwood who passed first. He chose the straightaway for the
maneuver, spurting where the watchers were clustered thickest about
the track. Stuart reflected that that was like Lantwood, for the
pasty-faced youth always played to the gallery when he could. He didn’t
let Lantwood’s sprint hurry him, however, and went past the mark in a
babel of sound acclaiming the delight of the spectators at finding, at
last, something to cheer about. If any one hailed his passing he didn’t
know it, for Lantwood’s spectacular burst of speed brought forth an
acclaim that drowned all other applause.

The first corner found his feet growing heavy and his breathing
beginning to shorten, but he had the comforting assurance that the
others were in a like case, some more so, some less. He could not,
however, help glancing enviously at the fleet-footed Lantwood. The
latter was some forty yards ahead, leading the field, his head up and
his thin legs working like two pieces of machinery. That, acknowledged
Stuart, was real running, and he was momentarily impatient with himself
for having the temerity to pit his own amateur efforts against such
ability. But the _pat-scrunch_ of shoes beside him put the thought out
of his mind and he turned his head a fraction to see who was passing
him.

It was Tully, big and raw-boned and earnest. There was something
impressive about Tully’s running, even if he never finished better than
second or, more often, third. Tully set his pace a dozen strides from
the start and never changed it. He knew how fast he could run four laps
of the track, and he made his plans accordingly. If the pace he set
wasn’t hard enough to wear the other man out, why, that was something
else. Some day, Tully promised himself, his pace would do the trick. It
was only a matter of finding the pace that, persisted in from the start
to finish, would carry him to victory. Meanwhile, those who depended
on a final, heart-bursting sprint to carry them the last part of the
way won from him only tolerant contempt. Whether he finished first or
second or tenth, Tully would always step off the track with a tranquil
countenance and walk unhesitatingly to the dressing room. Stamina was
old Tully’s long suit, and, as The Laird observed frequently, if the
Dual Meet provided for a two-mile run Tully would win such an event at
a jog!

Tully never glanced aside as he went slowly, methodically past Stuart,
and gradually took the pole again. Behind Tully ran Walton, and Stuart
had no intention of letting the latter by just then. Stuart increased
his speed for a half-dozen strides and placed himself behind Tully.
From there he went on like the bigger fellow’s shadow, matching stride
for stride. Of the twenty or so who had started only a dozen were left
in the running, although all but three were still jogging about the
track, hopelessly distanced. Ahead of Stuart were five men: Lantwood,
with nearly a quarter of a lap lead; a red-headed fellow whose name
Stuart did not know; Smiley who, although he had lost much of his
handicap, was still running nicely; Farnsworth, who was falling back
at the turn, and Tully. Farnsworth appeared to have shot his bolt too
soon, for he was evidently in distress already. Stuart’s own condition
was not, he reflected, anything to boast of, but he could still pound
out the strides and still keep his head level. Toe to heel with Tully,
he took the corner and drew up on Farnsworth. The latter was wobbling
badly. Across the next corner, Stuart observed that the unknown redhead
was slowing up.

The gong had clanged the beginning of the last lap, announcing that
Lantwood had crossed the mark. At that moment Tully edged outward and
Stuart took his cue from the big fellow and they went past Farnsworth.
Then the straightaway began, with the crowd about the finish line. The
gong clanged again. That would be either the redhead or Smiley, thought
Stuart. He couldn’t see which was ahead. A moment later he was himself
passing the crowd, and cheers for Tully and for Harven were sounding
loudly. Stuart thought he heard Tom Hanson’s voice, but he wasn’t sure.
It didn’t matter, anyhow. Nothing much did matter but the fact that
Tully was setting a hard pace to follow. Of course Tully hadn’t altered
his speed a mite. It wasn’t that. It was merely that Stuart was getting
to the limit of his endurance, or thought he was, which was much the
same thing.

The turn brought a certain relief and encouragement. Another corner
would bring the backstretch, and after that the last turn and then the
homestretch. Halfway down the further side of the track, Lantwood was
going easily. He was not running so fast now, but he didn’t have to.
He had the race as certainly as if he was already stepping across the
line. There was no longer any question of who would win, if there ever
had been. All that remained to be settled was the matter of second,
third and fourth places. Well, if he could hold out, Stuart reflected,
he would be sure of fourth position. Tully would get second, of course,
and Smiley third. The redhead was beaten, plodding away with head
swaying and his stride short. They’d pass him at the next turn. Funny,
thought Stuart, if he and old Tully were to fight it out for fourth
place, for Smiley still had a comfortable lead and still seemed able.
He wondered what handicap Tully had had. Not much, probably, for the
old warrior was a real runner at the mile. A swift glance over his
shoulder showed Stuart that the nearest pursuer was at least thirty-odd
yards behind and in poor shape. No danger from that quarter.

The red-haired youth dropped by them as they turned into the
backstretch. Ahead, Smiley was having trouble. Stuart could see the
uncertainty of his stride. Once Smiley’s head came back, was recovered
and fell sidewise for an instant. Perhaps, then, it was to be third
place he was to fight for, and the thought gave him a thrill. But,
halfway along the stretch, his own legs began to go back on him. They
didn’t feel as if they belonged to him any more. His head, too, got
silly. It wouldn’t stay where it belonged. Something was wrong with his
neck, for the muscles pained him and felt knotted. But of course one
didn’t stop so long as he could still get his breath and keep his feet
moving. If the rim of the track would keep out of his way and not try
to trip him up he could do better. If he ever caught a spike in the
wood――

Tully’s body leaned to the left. Stuart got a better grip on himself
and followed around the corner. There was a lot of noise from across
the field. Perhaps Lantwood had finished. No, Lantwood was still in
sight, just vanishing into the lane formed by the crowd. Ahead, but
considerably nearer, was Smiley. Stuart guessed they’d beat Smiley. He
wondered if Tully hadn’t slackened his speed a mite. Here they were
at the last corner already, and if Tully would only hit it up a bit
they might get by Smiley before the finish came. But Tully kept on
untroubledly. Stuart, sobbing for breath now, wobbling a bit more on
the legs that didn’t seem his, was impatient. Didn’t the silly idiot
_want_ to win second place? What was the matter with him? Why, Smiley
was all in; any one could see it; and all they had to do was speed up
just a little to pass him!

A dozen strides further on Stuart became angry. He wanted to call out
to Tully and tell him to sprint, but he knew there was no breath left
him for any such purpose. Then, without reasoning a moment, he eased
his pace a fraction, turned slightly and ran even with the big fellow.
He wanted to say “Come on!” but he couldn’t even close his mouth to
form the words. For three strides he matched strides with Tully, and
then drew ahead. He had no longer any conscious thought of winning
second place. Ahead of him, only a little way ahead of him now, was
the faltering Smiley, and Stuart wanted to pass Smiley. He couldn’t
have explained just then why he wanted to, but he did. It was a sudden
obsession. The sight of Smiley’s swaying form ahead affronted him. He
closed his dizzy eyes and forced himself on.

The sound of excited cheers, cries, exhortations might have been the
murmur of a breeze among leaves so far as Stuart was concerned.
Later he remembered hearing it perfectly, but just then, as he went
swaying toward the finish line, it made no impression. There was but
one thought in his mind. He must reach that other runner and get past
him. And reach him he did, a scant four strides from the mark. After
that it was just a question of inches between second man and third, and
of feet between third man and fourth, for Stuart and Smiley and Tully
finished in a bunch. The principal difference was less in space than in
condition, for whereas both Stuart and Smiley toppled into the arms of
bystanders, old Tully kept on for a dozen paces, slowed gradually and
then walked off to where he had left his bathrobe.

The judge at the finish said that Stuart had won by a button, which
was near enough the truth. Personally Stuart didn’t care a bit for as
much as five minutes whether he had won at all. But when he could sit
up again and look about him on a hazy world the knowledge brought a
warming satisfaction. A dozen fellows were telling him that he had run
a great race, that he had shown fine generalship and a lot of other
complimentary things, to all of which Stuart listened amiably and in
silence. Then he allowed Tom Hanson to raise him to his feet and some
one else to hold his robe for him; and a pale, panting youth who proved
to be Smiley, shook hands with him and said “Congratulations, Harven,”
and Stuart grinned and answered “Thanks! Ought to have been you,” and,
so far as Stuart was concerned, the Fall Handicap Meet was at an end.

Of course a certain renown accrued to him, and the race was talked
of for a day or two. The Laird tried to get him to promise to keep
on training for the track, promising to make a great miler of him by
the next year, but Stuart shook his head. “It was rather fun,” he
acknowledged, “but I’m through, Laird. I’m not really a track man. Next
year――well, I guess I’ll be playing football again by then.”

A second team player made the statement that “as a football captain
Harven was a great mile runner,” and the _bon mot_ won much favor among
those who were not in sympathy with Stuart’s recent behavior.




                              CHAPTER XII

                            NEIL INTERVENES


Although Stuart managed to remain away from the football field during
practice, the temptation to witness the Saturday contests from a closer
point of observation than the running track was too strong to be
resisted. Anyway, even if a fellow didn’t any longer concern himself
with the fortunes of his own team, he naturally wanted to see how
the other fellow comported himself. So when the St. Charles contest
was played he and Neil were occupants of seats at a far end of the
stand. There wasn’t much to excite oneself over in the course of that
game, for the visitor was outplayed from the start, and out-generaled
as well. Coach Haynes put in a wealth of substitutes in the third
and fourth periods, and even then the final score was satisfactorily
decisive, being 21 to 0 in favor of the Cherry-and-Gray. But during
the succeeding game, that with the Brown Freshmen, Neil was really
sorry for his chum. Stuart pretended indifference and tried very, very
hard to maintain a studied calm, but the way in which he clenched his
hands and wriggled in his seat and made funny noises in his throat,
told Neil that he wasn’t happy. There was no good reason why he should
have been happy, for that matter. The Brown youngsters were too many
for the Cherry-and-Gray from the first kick-off, and, although Manning
fought hard and twice held the enemy from scoring in the first two
periods, she couldn’t get her own offense working decently and never
once threatened the enemy’s goal. Individually, the Manning linemen
were good, but they didn’t seem to get together well. The backfield
had lost its aggression completely and, while it was easy enough to
lay a portion of the blame on Wheaton, at quarter, by no means all of
it was due to him. Leo Burns, recovered from his injury, was at left
half, Billy Littlefield at right and Howdy Tasker at fullback. There
were flashes of hard, brilliant playing, but on the whole the Manning
backfield was a disappointment to-day, especially on attack. During the
intermission Stuart was rather silent and carefully avoided discussing
the game.

The Brown Freshmen started in in the third quarter harder than ever and
at the end of five or six minutes had scored their first touchdown.
Better playing and a heavier team counted at last. Coach Haynes made
two changes after that, putting Le Gette at right tackle in place
of Thurston and Hanson at right half in place of Billy Littlefield.
Hanson’s presence bolstered up the backfield perceptibly, but Stuart
couldn’t see any improvement in the right tackle position. Probably he
didn’t want to. There was one bright spot in the third period when,
toward the end of it, Howdy Tasker got away on an old-style fake-kick
play and circled Brown’s left end for thirty-odd yards, placing the
pigskin on the enemy’s twenty-eight. But the advance failed a few yards
beyond, for Wheaton fumbled a pass, and, although Burns recovered it,
a down had been lost. Tasker got a scant two yards outside left tackle
and then Hanson heaved to Muirgart and the ball grounded. Burns tried a
drop-kick from the thirty-five-yard line, but the ball sailed far wide
of goal.

Brown crashed her way to a second touchdown in the last period,
finding but weak opposition inside the ten yards and putting the ball
across from there in three tries at the right of the line. Each of her
touchdowns was followed by a goal, and the final score was 14 to 0.

Going back to the dormitory, Stuart’s long-pent emotions burst forth.
He called the team a disgrace, an insult to Manning traditions, a gang
of loafers and many other choice names. And he said hard things about
the generalship displayed and the sort of coaching that could take out
a good man like Thurston and put in Steve Le Gette. He didn’t criticize
Jack’s playing or Jack’s performance of his duties as captain, nor
did he deal unkindly with Wheaton, but about every other player was
thoroughly hauled over the coals. As for “Wheat,” Stuart declared that
he had done as well as any fellow had a right to expect. “He’s no
wonder, but he worked himself to death, pretty near, with a backfield
that was asleep on its feet most of the time! Why Littlefield just
stopped when he got to the line and looked for a comfortable place to
sit down! Hanson was some better, but he didn’t show enough punch to
break a lath. If that’s the sort of team Haynes thinks is going to
lick Pearsall, he’s got a jolt coming to him!”

Stuart had a lot more to say, and said it, his remarks lasting until
long after he and Neil had reached Number 12. Finally, though, wrath
and disgust were succeeded by a settled gloom that continued most of
the evening. Neil tried to persuade him to go over to the village to
the movies after supper, but he wouldn’t, and Neil went off by himself.
In the yard, though, he met Jack and Greg Trenholme and Howdy Tasker
and, on the way to the village, listened to much post-mortem talk from
the fullback. Coming back after, it must be acknowledged, a not very
hilarious evening at the little theater, Greg introduced the subject of
Stuart. “Neil, why doesn’t he take a tumble to himself and go back to
the team and help out? Doesn’t he know that the school’s getting sore
at him? After to-day it’ll look worse than ever.”

Neil didn’t answer, and it was Jack who attempted an excuse. “Let the
poor fellow alone,” he said. “He’s feeling pretty sore, I guess.”

“No reason for it that I can see,” said Tasker. “He threw up his job
when he didn’t have to. I call that deserting in the face of the enemy,
by jove! Now, instead of doing the decent thing and playing quarter, he
sulks. I like Stuart, but he’s a pigheaded ass!”

“We certainly need him,” said Jack feelingly. “I’m not saying anything
against ‘Wheat,’ for he wasn’t any rottener than most of us to-day, but
he can’t play the game that Stuart can at quarter, and no one pretends
that he can or ever will. I talked to Stuart about going back and got
sat on.”

“Have you tried it, Neil?” asked Greg.

“Yes.”

“No good, eh?”

“Some one,” said Tasker impatiently, “ought to talk turkey to him. I
should think he’d see that it’s his duty to play. Look here, Neil,
you’ve got more influence with him than any one else, I guess. Why
don’t you have a real talk and show him that――that――Gosh, I should
think after seeing to-day’s game he’d _want_ to get out and do
something! I know plaguy well I would!”

“I’ll see what I can do,” agreed Neil readily but not very hopefully.
“I’ll try him again to-morrow.”

“Atta boy! Tell him the school’s getting sore with him and――”

Jack interrupted Tasker. “No, don’t tell him anything of the sort,
Neil. That would just put his back up. Tell him the team needs him.
That’s the only thing that’ll fetch him.”

When Neil got back to the room, Stuart had turned in and was sound
asleep, and Neil nodded approvingly. “A good sleep will make him feel
better in the morning, I guess,” he said to himself. “And I’ll tackle
him before he gets a chance to catch a new grouch!”

It was while they were dressing that Neil said suddenly: “Stuart, will
you tell me the truth if I ask you something?”

Stuart grinned. “I’ll either tell you the truth or keep my mouth
closed,” he replied. “What’s the question, little one?”

“Aren’t you wanting to be back on the team, Stuart?”

For a long moment it seemed that Stuart meant to keep his mouth closed.
He gave far more attention to pulling on a sock than the task appeared
to demand. When, however, he had snugged it over his foot fastidiously
he looked up.

“Sort of,” he said.

Neil swung over to his dresser, selected a soft collar and thrust a
blue tie through the loops.

“Why don’t you?” he asked finally.

“Because I’ve got some self-respect, I suppose. And maybe I’m not
wanted, anyway.”

“That’s not so, Stuart. The fellows all want you.”

“Maybe some of them do.” Stuart pulled his trousers on and cinched the
belt with a jerk. “I’ll bet Haynes doesn’t, though.”

“What makes you think that?” asked Neil.

“Why, if he wants me, why doesn’t he――” Stuart stopped.

“Say so?” supplied the other. “Maybe he thinks it wouldn’t do any good.”

“Well, I guess it wouldn’t,” muttered Stuart.

“After all, if the team needs you, and it certainly does, what Mr.
Haynes says or doesn’t say hasn’t got much to do with it, I guess. It’s
the team you’d be helping and not the coach, Stuart.”

“I wouldn’t be much use there if Haynes didn’t want me, though. And I
guess he’s pretty well satisfied with things as they are.”

“I don’t see how he can be after yesterday’s slaughter,” replied Neil.
“But I’m glad you’ve explained.”

“Explained what?” asked Stuart suspiciously.

“Why you don’t go back,” answered the other. “I didn’t want to think
that it was just your pride that was keeping you from doing your duty.
If it’s because Mr. Haynes doesn’t want you, that’s different. I can
understand that, of course. No one wants to go where he’s not wanted.”

“You bet he doesn’t,” agreed Stuart.

“I’m glad to know that you would go back if it wasn’t for that,” said
Neil. “You would, wouldn’t you?”

“I suppose so,” replied the other doubtfully. Then, seeing Neil’s
puzzled look, he added quickly: “Of course I would!”

Neil’s face cleared and he smiled. “That’s the ticket! That’s what I
wanted to be sure of!”

“Seems to me you’re mightily interested all of a sudden,” said Stuart
dubiously. “I don’t see that it makes much difference what the reason
is.”

“It makes all the difference in the world,” replied Neil earnestly.
“Anyway, it does to me. You see, Stuart, I’ve thought all along that
you ought to forget your――your differences with the coach and the
others and just remember that the team needed you. And I guess I’ve
blamed you when I oughtn’t to have. I thought it was just hurt pride
that kept you away. Now I find that you had a pretty good reason. Don’t
you see?”

Stuart thoughtfully stuck his military brushes together and nodded. “I
see,” he answered. “You ready?” At the door he added: “You’re a queer
idiot, old Neil!”

After breakfast Neil was missing and Stuart went across to Meigs to put
in the time before church with Jack. Since Jack’s roommate was Stearns
Wilson, Stuart had carefully avoided Number 17 of late, but now, since
Jud McColl had eliminated his only excuse for being down on Wilson,
there was no reason for staying away. Wilson, however, wasn’t in this
morning, as it proved, and Stuart and Jack had the room to themselves.
Something of the old intimacy between the two was lacking, it seemed,
and the talk, if not exactly constrained, wasn’t like the talks they
used to have. Stuart assured himself several times that he held no
resentment against Jack, but the fact remained that somewhere there was
a fly in the amber of their friendship. Stuart didn’t remain in Number
17 until church time, but left after a half hour or so, feeling oddly
relieved when he had closed the door behind him, and returned to Lacey.
Neil was still absent, and Stuart, selecting a magazine and throwing
himself on the window seat, wondered where the dickens he could be.

If by some magic power he could have seen Neil at that moment he would
have been very greatly surprised.




                             CHAPTER XIII

                     STUART GOES OUT FOR THE TEAM


Neil was sitting in an armchair in Coach Haynes’ front room, his
crutches against his knees. The coach sat near by, close to one of the
long front windows, completely surrounded by a Sunday paper. Beyond
him, through the casement that reached to the floor, Neil saw the
little park, fenceless, deep in yellow and red maple leaves, and the
abandoned iron fountain in the center, its basin long dry and filled
with the litter of many seasons. But, against the trees, some of them
still retaining their gaudy foliage, and bathed in the sunlight of a
wonderful early November morning, it looked rather pretty. Mr. Haynes
was smoking an after-breakfast pipe, and the clouds of gray-blue smoke
writhed and billowed in the shaft of sunlight that fell athwart the
worn carpet and almost restored the ancient hues of its floral garlands.

“There never has been a moment since Harven resigned,” the coach was
saying, “when I wouldn’t have been mighty glad to have him back in his
old position, Orr, but no good would have come of my taking any steps
to get him. I think you realize that. I believed that he would come
around himself in time, but I thought it would be before this. Now that
he has decided to return, I’m very glad of it.”

“Yes, sir, but he hasn’t,” said Neil, smiling ruefully. “I mean, he’d
like to, but he thinks you don’t want him.”

“He hasn’t any right to think so,” commented Mr. Haynes. “I suppose he
thinks I was instrumental in ousting him, which I wasn’t, but even so
he should know that the success of the team means too much to me for
me to allow personal likes or dislikes to interfere. Well, what’s your
idea, Orr? Do you want me to see him and ask him to come back?”

“No, sir, I wouldn’t expect you to do that!” exclaimed Neil.

“Oh, I’ll do it if it’s necessary,” replied the coach surprisingly.
“But I fancy the less I appear personally in the matter the more chance
we have of success, Orr. You know Harven, and you know he’s a chap to
be handled with gloves――and mighty smooth ones at that! For instance,
if he learned you’d been here this morning, and I asked him to come
back to the team, he would naturally connect the two, jump to the
conclusion that you’d worked on my sympathies and we never would get
him. There’s a better way if we can only think of it.”

The coach puffed hard on his pipe and stared through the window for a
space. Finally: “You say he doesn’t know you’re here?” he asked.

“Not from me, sir. And I shan’t tell him.”

The coach nodded and a second silence followed. At last he turned and
rapped the ashes from his pipe into the ash tray on the arm of his
chair. “I’ve got it, Orr,” he said. “The Laird’s the one to do it. I’ll
see him this afternoon.”

Neil’s face brightened. “That’s so, Mr. Haynes! They’ve always been
great pals! Stuart will listen to The Laird.”

“I’m sure he will. Don’t hurry away, though. I’m mighty grateful to you
for doing this, Orr. I wish you didn’t have to use those things.” He
pointed smilingly to the crutches. “I’d like you on the team, old man!”

Neil flushed, not at the allusion to the crutches but in real pleasure.
You see, he sometimes thought that if he had been like other chaps
he could have done rather well in sports, and it was fine to have the
coach confirm the thought. He made his way back to school very happy.

Stuart was inclined to be a bit resentful because Neil had left him
alone, but he didn’t insist on knowing where the other had been and
Neil at once began to bustle around in preparation for church. His
prayer book and hymnal had, it appeared, been misplaced, and in aiding
in the search Stuart forgot his resentment and any curiosity he may
have had. The missing articles were eventually discovered by Neil just
where he had left them a week before. It was almost dusk when there
came a knock on the door of Number 12 and The Laird came in. Stuart
had been humped up on the window seat earnestly wrestling with his
English, and Neil was in the middle of a delayed Sunday letter. The
Laird explained carelessly that he’d been out for a bit of a walk and
thought he’d drop in and pass the time of day. Stuart was glad to see
him and equally glad of an excuse to close his books, and he made
The Laird comfortable in the biggest of the two easy chairs and was
quite merry. Neil ended his letter hurriedly during the first minutes
of the trainer’s visit, inclosed it, and, excusing himself, took it
down to the letter box in front of Manning Hall. He made the trip very
leisurely and, on the way back, stopped in a few minutes with Tom
Hanson who lived on the first floor. He was careful not to make his
absence suspiciously prolonged, however, and got back to Number 12 some
fifteen minutes after his departure. The trainer was still there and
neither he nor Stuart appeared to have been aware of Neil’s absence.
They were talking football, the pair of them; discussing the chances
of Yale coming back in time for the Princeton game next Saturday, and
the overthrow of the big colleges in their games yesterday. It was
evident to Neil, however, that The Laird had performed his mission,
and performed it well since Stuart was unmistakably in an excited and
exalted frame of mind. Presently the trainer took his leave, and Neil,
after waiting a moment for Stuart to explode the news, asked idly:

“What did The Laird have to say? Anything new in the world?”

“N-no.” Stuart was elaborately careless. Whatever he had to tell, Neil
saw, wasn’t going to be exploded! “We were talking about the game
Saturday and one thing and another. Where’d you go?”

“Out to post my letter. Then I stopped in at Tom Hanson’s for a minute.
It’s getting colder.”

“Yes.” Stuart absently fingered the pages of a book. “I guess we’re in
for a cold snap. Glad of it. You need zippy weather for football. That
reminds me. I’ve decided to go back on the team to-morrow.”

“Honest?” exclaimed Neil, in surprised and pleased tones. “I’m awfully
glad!”

Stuart laughed ironically. “The Laird says Haynes was talking to him
to-day. What do you think he asked him?”

“I don’t know. What?”

“Asked him if he thought I meant to come back! Looks as if he wasn’t
so mighty independent, after all, eh? The Laird says he guesses Haynes
would be tickled to death if I showed up again. And The Laird sort of
wants me to, too.”

“That’s fine,” commented Neil. “Only, if he happened to be wrong about
Mr. Haynes you wouldn’t want to do it, of course.”

“He isn’t wrong,” replied Stuart decisively. “He’s dead right. I――I’ve
sort of suspected――just lately, I mean――that Haynes wouldn’t be
heartbroken if I reported again.”

“Oh! But you said――”

“I know,” answered the other impatiently. “I didn’t have anything to
go on, you see; it was just a――just a feeling. Anyway, I’ve decided to
risk it. I’m going out to-morrow afternoon. Gee, it’ll be good to get
back into togs again! Of course, I may not get my place back, but I
don’t care so much. I’ll have the fun of playing. And――and The Laird
says they need me. There’s only one more game before Pearsall, but he
thinks we’re going to come back all right. Golly, Neil, we’ve _got_
to! When you come right down to it, Pearsall hasn’t done so remarkably
well herself this fall. Yesterday’s win wasn’t anything to brag about.
Eleven to three against Lyons was pretty punk, I’ll say. They’ll have
to do a great sight better playing two weeks from now if they expect to
beat this outfit!”

Stuart, once well started on the subject of football, gave no signs
of tiring. In fact, he kept it up until supper and, after supper,
until bedtime. Neil listened patiently if not always interestedly, too
pleased with the result of the conspiracy to begrudge attention, even
though it left him ill-prepared for to-morrow’s recitations. Stuart was
too absorbed to notice that his roommate sometimes hid a yawn behind a
polite hand.

The next afternoon Manager Locker, early on the field and uninterestedly
watching two second-string backs kicking a ball about, beheld with
surprise the approach of a youth in togs who had, at the distance of a
hundred yards, a remarkable resemblance to Stuart Harven. Nor did his
surprise decrease as the youth drew nearer and the resemblance
increased. Locker drew in a long breath and ejaculated: “Well, I’ll be
jiggered!” Then he stepped eagerly forward. “Stuart!” he exclaimed.
“Gee, this is great! Say――”

But Stuart interrupted gravely. “Hello, Fred,” he said. “I’d like to
report for practice.”

Locker opened his mouth for a good laugh, but something in the other’s
face caused him to change his mind. Instead: “Oh!” he faltered. “That’s
fine! Well, I guess we need――――”

“Might take my name if you don’t mind.” Stuart’s gaze traveled to the
breast of Locker’s jacket and came to rest significantly over an inside
pocket.

“What? Oh, sure!” The manager hurriedly produced his red book and
plucked a pen from a pocket of his vest. There was no harm in humoring
the other!

“Stuart Harven, seventeen, Upper Middle Class, 12 Lacey,” announced the
applicant soberly. Locker wrote it down.

“Experience?” he asked.

“Two years. Maybe you’d better say three. I played part of this season.”

Locker nodded, as grave now as Stuart. “What position?” he inquired.

“Quarterback.”

“Thanks.” Locker closed his book and slipped it back into his pocket.
“I suppose you know about your physical examination? But I forget;
you’ve played this season already, you said. Report to the trainer
after practice, please. Now, you big chump, come off your high horse
and talk sense! Are you really going to play?”

Stuart nodded. “If they’ll let me, Fred.”

“_Let_ you? _Let_――Say, where do you get that stuff? You watch ’em! I
guess the only chap who won’t be tickled pink is Wheaton. And, at that,
I fancy he won’t be awfully cut up, for Wheat’s bitten off more than he
can Fletcherize, and he knows it! Here they come now!”

The squad was beginning to dribble across the field from the gymnasium.
Once past the tennis courts, the balls began to soar. Stuart saw Coach
Haynes well back in the second group, talking to Jack. Stuart kept
his place beside Fred Locker, waiting, a trifle woodenly, for his
presence to be discovered. It was Tom Muirgart who first recognized
him and spread the news with a shout. Then Tom, followed by Billy
Littlefield and Wallace Towne, hiked across the corner of the gridiron
and assaulted him joyfully. It was hard to keep up that expression and
manner of unconcern when Tom was banging him between the shoulders
and Billy was ruffling his hair with jovial but ungentle hand. Stuart
donned his headgear in protection and dodged Tom’s enthusiastic palm.

“Cut it out, fellows,” he growled, embarrassed, and darting an
apprehensive look toward the approaching coach. “Don’t make a――a silly
scene!” But in avoiding Tom’s blows he backed squarely into the stout
arms of Joe Cutts, and Joe seized on him as though he were an opposing
center and lifted him, struggling and wriggling, off his feet. After
that there was no use in attempting to carry the affair off with
dignity and decorum, and Stuart realized it and subsided in weak and
futile remonstrances. “Thirsty” and “Howdy” and “Bee” and half a dozen
others closed about him and pummeled him joyously or pumped his arms,
or, unable to get close enough to lay violent hands on him, shouted
their welcome. Stuart alternately grinned and scowled; grinned because
grinning seemed to ease the sort of choky feeling in his throat, and
scowled to prove that he hadn’t grinned!

And then, the group thinning, he found himself looking straight at
the coach. Mr. Haynes smiled and held out his hand. “Glad to see you,
Harven,” he said cordially.

Foes may clasp hands and still remain foes. Stuart returned the coach’s
firm grip and said: “Thanks, sir.”

Then practice began.

Stuart discovered that a fortnight or so of idleness had told on his
muscles surprisingly, but he didn’t allow any one else to suspect it.
He went through formation drill in a squad of substitutes, playing his
old position. He felt that the atmosphere here was not so sympathetic
as it had been among that group of older players, but he didn’t resent
it. Nor did he resent being left on the bench when, after an hour’s
practice, the second team trailed across from the further gridiron and
the scrimmage began. He couldn’t expect to get his place back without a
struggle. That wouldn’t be fair to Wheat, who, no matter what might be
said of his shortcomings, had tried loyally and hard. For that matter,
Stuart reflected, he might get no better than first substitute’s place
for the rest of the season. To-day he didn’t care very much. It was
so jolly good to get back at all! He had been an idiot to stay out so
long, he told himself. Haynes had acted pretty decently. Shown good
form, too. Some men would have been sloppy and hypocritical and some
would have been sneering or sarcastic. Haynes had hit just the right
note, and Stuart was grateful. “You might dislike Haynes,” he said to
himself, “but you have to respect the guy!”

Stuart’s relegation to the bench during scrimmage was, perhaps, made
more endurable by the presence near by of Steve Le Gette. It wasn’t
that Le Gette’s mere proximity gave comfort to Stuart, but it was some
satisfaction to know that if Stuart wasn’t good enough for a place in
the line-up, neither was Le Gette!

Stuart didn’t spend the whole period on the bench, however, after all,
for toward the end of the game Wheaton was banished and Stuart slipped
back to his old position for a wonderful five minutes.




                              CHAPTER XIV

                           WANTED, A KICKER


Stuart’s return to the fold was a matter of almost as much discussion
as his previous retirement had been. But where he had been censured
before for leaving the squad he was now censured for returning to it.
Among his friends and closer acquaintances, of course, his action was
approved, but there were some three hundred and fifty students at
Manning that fall and to the bulk of them Stuart Harven was known by
sight only, and it was from outside his small circle of friends and
admirers that disapproval came. It was largely held that, having left
the team, he should have stayed off it for the season; that his return
would only have the effect of upsetting football affairs again. Even
among the squad there were some who viewed his reappearance on the
field rather coldly. There was, however, no doubt as to the sentiment
of most of the players, and Stuart was grateful to those for their
hearty welcome and friendliness. He needed the encouragement such
friendliness gave, for it was speedily evident that his absence from
practice, as brief as it had been, had played hob with his game. Much
of the old dash was gone, much of his former initiative lacking. He
had to prod himself constantly in order to show a semblance of his old
form. It was as though the ability to play was inside him but wouldn’t
come out! By the middle of the week he despaired of “coming back” and
realized disheartenedly that so far as the big game was concerned he
might just as well have stayed away. But he was of use to the team, and
knew it. He found some comfort in the knowledge, and, which is to his
credit, refused to be downcast and kept pegging away as hard as he knew
how.

Of course what Stuart realized others saw, too. Wednesday evening Jack
brought up the subject after a conference in Coach Haynes’s quarters.
“I don’t know what’s the matter with Stuart,” he said troubledly. “He
isn’t playing anywhere near his real game.”

“No,” said the coach. After a moment he added: “I’m afraid his coming
back is going to make more unhappiness for him, Brewton. I suppose he
expected to get his place again, but it doesn’t look now as if he
could have it, and I’m afraid he will think he is injured and blame
me.” Mr. Haynes shook his head regretfully. “It’s too bad. There’s
enough ill feeling on his side toward me already; and there’s another
year to go through with yet. That is, if I’m back again.”

“But you will be, sir, won’t you?”

“I hope so, Brewton, but a good deal depends on how things go this
year. I was given a one-year contract with the understanding that if
things went well this fall I should have another for two. If Pearsall
shows us up I fancy I’ll be looking for a new job.” Mr. Haynes smiled.
Then he looked grave again. “This trouble with Harven has been mighty
unfortunate. The Committee has stood by me, but I suppose they can’t
help thinking that another man might have got along with less friction.
And I guess they’re right. If I had understood Harven as well in
September as I do now I’d have handled him differently. I can’t comfort
myself with the assurance that the fault has all been his, you see.
I’ve made mistakes, too, Brewton.”

Jack frowned. “Stuart’s awfully sort of touchy and stubborn,” he
muttered. “I guess it would be mighty hard for any coach to get along
with him much better than you have. He――hang him!――he’s got it in
for me now. I don’t know why. He’s as stiff as a ramrod. It can’t be
because I took his place, for I went to him before I accepted it and he
said it was all right, that he’d rather see me captain than any other
fellow. But he acts as if I’d done something against him!”

Mr. Haynes smiled. “Human nature has some queer angles, my boy,” he
said. “I fancy Harven really thought he was glad to see you become
captain, and I dare say he’s tried to be, but there’s a little hurt
feeling that persists, and he can’t help showing it. But I wouldn’t let
it bother me. He’ll get over it in time. By the way, what about Towne?
Have you heard from him since afternoon?”

“No, sir, but I guess it’s only a cold.”

“Well, I hope so,” answered the coach grimly. “We can’t afford to lose
our best guard just now. And we’d certainly be in a hole if he wasn’t
on hand to kick field goals. That’s a weak department with us, Brewton.
Outside of Towne and Harven we haven’t a fellow we can depend on for
field goals. Tasker is a whale of a punter, but if the Pearsall game
depended on a three-point tally I’d hate to have to leave it to him!
Of course, if Harven was in we’d be safe, but unless he bucks up a
whole lot inside of the next week he’s likely to see that game from the
bench. If I were you I’d look in on Towne to-night and see how he’s
making it.”

Jack agreed and took his departure.

Thursday morning it became known that Wally Towne was ill with
something that looked a whole lot like tonsillitis, and consternation
reigned throughout the school. That afternoon Baker played right guard
and the most promising of the second team’s guards was requisitioned
by Mr. Haynes. Baker, however, was not a success, and the second team
fellow, although he was scrappy and quick and worked hard, was much too
light for the place. On Friday the coach tried an experiment, and Steve
Le Gette, second-string tackle, was shoved into the line between Cutts
and Thurston. Le Gette had the weight and the size and he soon showed
that he had the fight. It was not certain that Towne would not be back
for the Pearsall game, but tonsillitis, if you have it severely enough,
can play hob with you, and even if Wally was able to enter the final
contest it was doubtful that he would be able to play it through; and
just now the doctor’s report was far from reassuring. So Coach Haynes
set about the development of a new guard, to the chagrin of several
substitutes for that position, and, recalling the fact that, with Towne
out of the game, there’d be a dearth of goal kickers, looked about him
for likely material. In the end, it was Le Gette who seemed the most
promising. Tasker would have to do the bulk of the punting and, while
he might add to his field goal ability by hard practice, it seemed
neither wise nor fair to add to his duties. Le Gette had done some
punting the year before on the second team as substitute fullback, and
so the coach’s choice fell on him.

Stuart, well wrapped in a big gray blanket against the chill wind
that was sweeping across the field, was watching the first and second
plugging away down by the thirty-yard line at the far end of the
field when some one seated himself on the bench beside him. Stuart,
interested in seeing the result of Tasker’s effort to punt into the
teeth of the wind, didn’t turn his head until Mr. Haynes’s voice
startled him.

“Harven,” the coach was saying, “how are you fixed for time in the
morning?”

“Time?” Stuart looked rather blank for an instant, trying to focus his
thoughts. It was a trifle disconcerting to find the coach’s eyes on a
level with his at a distance of two feet.

“Perhaps I’d better explain what I’m after,” continued the other. “We
need another man who can kick goals, Harven. If Towne shouldn’t make
the Pearsall game we’d be in a fix. If you were playing I’d not worry,
but, to be candid, you may not be.” He paused, but Stuart, turning his
gaze away, only nodded. “We need another man, if only to be on the safe
side,” Mr. Haynes resumed. “I know that a week is a mighty short time
to work in, but I think that if you gave an hour to the business in
the mornings and perhaps a half hour in the afternoons you could come
pretty close to giving us a new goal kicker. A good deal would depend
on the other chap, of course, but I’ve got a fellow who has done some
punting and who is willing to learn. He was on the second last year
and I’ve frankly told him that his chance of getting into the big game
depends on his ability to kick goals fairly well. You’ll find him eager
to learn, Harven. I’d take him in hand myself, but I’m no kicker and
never was, and I wouldn’t be able to teach him half as well as you
will. Now what do you say?”

“Of course I’ll do what I can, sir,” answered Stuart soberly and a bit
stiffly. “I can find an hour every morning, if my time suits the other
fellow’s. Is it certain that Towne won’t be able to play?”

“No, but we’ve got to be prepared. We may never have a chance to score
from the field in that game, but we want to have the goods if the
chance does come.”

“Of course. Who is the fellow, Mr. Haynes?”

“Le Gette,” replied the coach promptly.

Stuart looked startled. “Steve Le Gette?” he exclaimed.

The coach nodded. “Yes, I’m trying him at guard in Towne’s place and I
think he’ll fit. I’ll tell him to see you after practice and you can
fix a time for the instruction I hope.”

Stuart was frowning at his scarred hands. “We――he and I aren’t very
friendly, sir,” he muttered.

“I know that, but this is a time when such things don’t matter,
Harven,” answered the other quietly. “Each of you has a duty to perform
for the team. Personal differences can be forgotten for an hour or so
each day, I fancy.”

Stuart was silent a moment. Then: “I can do it if he can,” he replied.

“Good!” Mr. Haynes stretched out his hand and Stuart had put his in
it before he realized what was happening. He even grinned a little
in response to the coach’s smile. Afterwards he told himself that he
wished Haynes wasn’t so keen on hand-shaking. “Much obliged, Harven,”
the coach went on. “Don’t spare Le Gette. He’s game for all you can
pile on to him. See what you can do in a week. If you think I can help,
let me know, but I shan’t butt in on you. It’s up to you and Le Gette.”
He nodded and hurried off down the side line.

When the second period started Stuart took Wheaton’s place at quarter
and, it seemed to him, did better than he had done any day since his
return. He was not confident enough to carry the ball himself, although
had he tried a quarterback run in one instance and made it good he
might have added another six points to the first team’s score. But he
ran the team with not a little of his old brilliance, and Coach Haynes,
following the plays, smiled thoughtfully.

The meeting of Stuart and Le Gette was extremely polite and formal.
They walked back to the gymnasium together and compared schedules,
finding that on every day save Tuesday it would be possible to get an
hour together on the field. On Tuesday they fixed on a half hour,
possibly forty minutes, following breakfast. They parted with mutual
relief on the gymnasium steps.

There was a most enthusiastic cheer meeting that evening, and Stuart
and Neil attended, although the former tried to get out of it. New
songs and old songs were sung, every one who had the courage to face
that sea of faces and could think of anything to say made a speech.
There was wild and noisy applause on every provocation and the cheering
was deafening. Neil, noting that Stuart’s name brought as vociferous a
response as any, glowed proudly.

On their way out of the hall Stuart collided with Mr. Moffit and the
instructor took him by the arm and led him aside. “You didn’t come back
to report,” he accused smilingly. Stuart grinned. “I meant to, sir, but
I couldn’t make it. I suppose you’ve heard――――”

“Yes, and I was very glad, Harven. It is always a satisfaction to one
to learn that one’s prophesies have been――er――correct. You see, I
expected you to go back on the team and laid a wager with myself that
you would. It pleases me to win. I thank you.”

Stuart laughed. “You took chances, sir. I didn’t think I would go back.”

“On the contrary, my boy, I was betting on a sure thing. I was rather
ashamed to take that end of the wager: it was almost like cheating
myself. You see, Harven, what we think and what we think we think are
frequently very different thoughts. Well, the best of luck to you!” The
instructor nodded and smiled and was borne on and Stuart joined Neil
again. As he steadied the latter through the throng at the entrance he
said with conviction:

“Miss Muffit’s a mighty decent old guy, Neil.”

“Sure,” agreed Neil. “Every one is when we think so.”

Stuart’s rôle as teacher of the gentle art of kicking field goals began
the next forenoon. He had grimly determined to follow Mr. Haynes’s
instructions and not spare the pupil, and, as they crossed to the
second team gridiron, he announced:

“Haynes tells me that you want to learn, Le Gette, and that I’m to
teach you. I wasn’t crazy to take the job, as you can guess, but I did
take it and I’m going to do my best with it. What I’m trying to get at
is just this.” He stopped and scowled sternly. “You’ve got to work if
anything’s to come of this, and I’m going to see that you do work. But
you’re not to think that I’m――I’m trying to put anything over on you.
I’m doing this for Haynes――I mean for the team, and it won’t get us
anywhere if you grouch or sulk.”

“Oh, that’s all right,” answered Le Gette. “I’m not any crazier about
this than you are, but if you keep your shirt on I’ll do the same. And
I’ll take all the work you can give me, Harven. Let’s go.”

After half an hour Stuart concluded that it was going to be less a
matter of the teacher’s not sparing the pupil than of the pupil’s not
sparing the teacher. Le Gette was a veritable whale for work, and all
Stuart’s admonitions to take time were wasted. Le Gette spared neither
himself nor Stuart. And he proved an apt student, too. Stuart had to
acknowledge that. He listened to what was told him, copied the other’s
methods and got results. A knowledge of punting aided to some extent,
but drop-kicking is an art by itself and the pupil had much to learn.
When the hour was up and they had to hurry back to the campus, Stuart
couldn’t have said whether he or Le Gette was the more exhausted! In
the afternoon there was a brief half hour after the Williston game
was over, but as Le Gette had played through most of that contest he
wasn’t in very good shape for his lesson. For that matter, neither was
Stuart, for he, too, had participated. Both were glad enough when the
darkness put an end to the session. They went back to the gymnasium
in the twilight, crossing the deserted first team gridiron in silence
until, just short of the lighted windows of the building ahead, Le
Gette said feelingly:

“A shower isn’t going to be so rotten, eh?”

And Stuart answered, almost amiably: “You said something!”

The Williston game had resulted about as predicted. The visitors had
proved rather more formidable than expected, perhaps, and Coach Haynes
had been forced to use most of his first-string players well into
the third period. The exceptions were Whaley and Wheaton. The right
end had been roughly used in a tackle and had given way to Wesner in
the second period and Wheaton had yielded to Stuart soon after the
beginning of the third quarter. Stuart had done well enough; had run
the team fast and surely, had recovered a fumble of Tasker’s that might
have resulted disastrously and had pulled off three perfect heaves to
Tom Muirgart. But as for “stunts” Stuart simply wasn’t there. Those
old-time quarterback runs for thirty, forty, sometimes sixty yards were
missing. Only once during the time he had played had he dared attempt
a run and then he had been spilled promptly for a two-yard loss. On
the whole, though, the Cherry-and-Gray had played a hard, snappy
game against a doughty opponent, and the final score of 19 to 6 was
generally considered satisfactory. There were those who maintained that
Williston should not have scored, but there are always pessimists in
every community.




                              CHAPTER XV

                            THE CONFERENCE


After Breakfast Sunday morning Jack appeared at Number 12 Lacey with a
big bundle of newspapers under his arm. It was his first call for over
a week and, had Neil been absent, there might have been an appreciable
restraint in the atmosphere. But Neil saved the situation, and in a
minute the conversation was going smoothly enough. Jack was full of the
football news, dumping all save the sporting sections of the Sunday
papers on the floor, and read aloud the story of the Pearsall――St.
Charles game, which Pearsall had captured by the staggering score of 39
to 0. Stuart forgot his grievances in surprise and concern.

“Golly! That’s three scores more than we made against them! It’s double
what we did! St. Charles must have been ’way off her game, Jack. You
can’t tell me that Pearsall is that much better than we are.”

But the story held nothing to confirm his theory. St. Charles was
credited with having played hard and with having made few mistakes. “I
guess Pearsall’s better than we thought she was,” said Jack gloomily.
“We didn’t find those St. Charles ends very easy, but Pearsall seems to
have run them about as she pleased! Look at some of her gains: ‘Connor
made seven outside left tackle’; ‘Morton, faking a throw to Cooper, ran
around right end for sixteen yards, St. Charles’ defense having fallen
for the bluff’; ‘Loring failed at the center, but on the next try went
outside tackle on the left and carried the pigskin to the twenty-eight
yards’; ‘Connor got around right end again for six, but a penalty for
off-side took the ball back to the forty-one yards.’ Say, that Connor
must be some guy!”

“Who went over to the game for us?” asked Stuart.

“Hanson and Joe Jakin.”

“What do they say?”

“I haven’t heard yet. They’re going to report this afternoon. They
didn’t get back until late last night. There was a freight smash-up
down the line and their train was held up. By the way, in case I forget
it, there’s a conference at Haynes’s Tuesday night and he wants you to
be sure and come.”

“Me?” Stuart looked surprised. “Oh, well, I guess I wouldn’t be much
use,” he added after a pause.

“Yes, you would. There’ll be about eight of us and we’re going over the
final plans. I’ll look for you.”

“Maybe I’ll get there,” answered Stuart with elaborate carelessness.

“You will,” said Neil decidedly. “You’ll get there if I have to carry
you!”

Jack laughed, and after a moment of indecision Stuart managed a grin.
Then they returned to the subject of the Pearsall――St. Charles game
and thrashed it all out, if not to their satisfaction at any rate most
exhaustively. When Jack took his departure, his precious papers under
his arm again, Stuart’s “So long, Jack,” was almost cordial.

In the afternoon Stuart went over to the infirmary and called on Wally
Towne. He spent only a few minutes with the patient, however, for Towne
was not up to talking much, and the nurse discouraged a longer visit.
Towne was certain that he’d be all right for the Pearsall game, but,
secretly, Stuart doubted it. Nor could he find anything in the nurse’s
expression to bear out Towne’s assertion. He left the room convinced
that if there were any field-goals scored on Saturday next they would
not be scored by poor old Wally!

Monday was rather an off day on the gridiron so far as the regulars
were concerned. Stuart had some fifteen minutes with a first team that
was largely substitutes, and the second managed to tie the game at 6
to 6. But so far as the education of Le Gette was concerned Monday was
not an off day at all. There was a round sixty minutes of work in the
morning and, because practice was shortened, a good forty-five in the
afternoon. Le Gette already showed progress, and Stuart acknowledged
the fact to the pupil on the way back from the field at dusk. Perhaps
his words sounded more grudging than he really felt, for Le Gette
laughed and answered: “Don’t say it if it hurts you, Harven.” Whereupon
Stuart fell into a silence and wondered if punching the other on the
nose would really yield him all the satisfaction he thought it would!

Tuesday the players put their noses back on the grindstone and Coach
Haynes turned it fast and unremittingly. When the second team came over
and the scrimmage started both sides realized that to-day’s battle was
going to be real and earnest, and, although neither Mr. Haynes nor
“Old Unabridged” so much as suggested it by word, look or gesture, fur
began to fly right away. A day of rest or light work for the first team
regulars had put them on their mettle and, paraphrasing the old story,
they were determined that no second team could bite them and live! It
was a hot, scrappy affair from the first whistle to the ten-minute
intermission, and, from the intermission on to the last panting moment
when, with their backs to the goal line, the first team warriors
repelled the second for the fourth time inside the five-yard line,
praying for the whistle. Nominally it ended in a victory for the first,
7 to 6, but virtually it was a tie, for that margin of one point was
there only by reason that the second possessed no player with half the
ability of Joe Cutts to kick a goal from placement.

Stuart played through the second period――they played two halves of
fifteen minutes each――and worked hard. If he didn’t cover himself with
glory he at least managed to get fairly well sprinkled with gore, for
a second team end put an elbow against his nose in a heated moment of
the contest, and life was going far too hectically just then for the
administration of first aid. When the flow was staunched Stuart would
have been denied admittance at any respectable abattoir! But that was
all in the day’s work, and a puffy nose soon responds to the proper
treatment, and, anyhow, they’d stopped the second four times inside the
five yards! Still, Stuart felt the pace and showed it when the game was
done, and Le Gette, himself a dirt-smeared, short-winded, disreputable
object, took one brief look at his instructor and shook his head.

“It can’t be done,” he said. “Let’s call it off, Harven.”

And Stuart, wanting to act the Trojan but sensing the call of the
showers, nodded as reluctantly as he could, arose and limped off on the
trail of the others.

It was while The Laird was delicately administering to his enlarged and
ensanguined nose that Stuart asked perplexedly: “Say what’s the matter
with me, anyhow, Mac?”

The Laird tossed a wad of absorbent cotton into the basin and replied,
“Naught, lad. There’s no break there. ’Twill be fine to-morrow.”

“Oh, shucks, I don’t mean my nose,” responded Stuart impatiently,
“and you know it. I mean, what’s the reason I can’t play worth a hang
any more? You’ve seen how it is, Mac. I’m not half as good as I was.
I can’t play as well as I could at the beginning of last season!
Something’s wrong, and I can’t put my finger on it!”

“Eating all right?” asked the trainer.

“Sure. Eating enough, anyway. Sometimes things don’t taste so good,
but――oh, it isn’t that. I’m all right that way. Nothing wrong with me.
I mean――――”

“Don’t think about it, lad.” The trainer wiped his hands carefully and
returned things to the shelves. “No one can lay off as long as you did
and not break his stride. Given another week or ten days, you’d come
back fine.”

“But I haven’t got another week,” protested Stuart. “There’s only three
days! And I’ve been back a whole week already and I’m no better than I
was when I started!”

“I know,” The Laird nodded sympathetically. “It’s too bad, but I’d not
greet. You’re doing your best, lad, and we all know it, and there’s no
more any one can do.”

“Well, it’s mighty funny,” growled Stuart. “I’m fit as ever and I know
all the football I ever knew, but――but I can’t――can’t deliver the
goods! I get sort of scared, Mac. I’m afraid to try anything myself
for fear I’ll make a mess of it. The other day I almost fumbled!”

“What of it? There’s others have fumbled and lived to spring an alibi!”

“Maybe, but I never fumbled but once, and you know it: in a game, I
mean. And it frightened me, Mac.”

“You think too much, lad, and it’s making you nervous. Forget football
for a couple of days. And to-morrow, when you go in, give the ball to
yourself and prove you’re just as good as ever you were.”

“I wouldn’t be, though,” answered Stuart gloomily. “I’d make a botch of
it. I haven’t got the sand any more, Mac.”

“Try it, just the same, lad. If you get stopped there’s no great harm
done. But try it. That’s the only way to tell. There you are. Give
the nose a good bath in cold water to-night and again in the morning.
The lad that handed you that must have near sprained his elbow, I’m
thinking!”

Stuart took his damaged countenance to Coach Haynes’ at half-past seven
that evening and afforded more or less merriment to the others present
at the conference. There were seven of the players there: Jack, Tom
Muirgart, Beeman, Wheaton, Howdy Tasker, Leo Burns and Stuart. And The
Laird sat in a dim corner and smoked his pipe incessantly and spoke
only to answer questions. Fred Locker came in later, out of breath and
apologetic. Stuart took small part in the discussion that lasted well
over an hour and a half, although both Jack and the coach by word and
manner invited his opinions. The fact was that Stuart would willingly
have given his opinions had he had any, but, to his surprise, he
found that, save on one or two subjects alone he had formulated none.
It was Jack who, aside from Mr. Haynes, had supplied suggestion and
criticism, who had, it appeared, really given thought to the questions
that arose. For the first time Stuart realized how far short of perfect
his conception of a captain’s duties had been, and he felt a new, and
slightly envious, respect for Jack.

Coach Haynes was very frank in comparing Manning and Pearsall and
made no attempt to spare any one’s feelings. “I don’t think Pearsall
has much if anything on us in the rush line. Maybe Walworth is a bit
cleverer than Cutts. He’s a good example of the light, quick-moving
center, very shifty and a hard man to handle on offense. Their right
guard is a remarkably good one, too, and Le Gette will have his hands
full. As to ends, I’m not troubling. Our scouts report that Cooper, who
played left end for them, was boxed time and again Saturday. Of course,
we can’t count much on that, for that fault will probably be largely
corrected. It’s when we come to the backfield that the comparison goes
against us, fellows. There’s no doubt that, as the two teams played
three days ago, Pearsall has a faster, heavier and more aggressive
set of backs than we have. Connor, their right half, is an unusually
fine player. He made most of their running gains for them and did a
lot better against the St. Charles ends than we did. Morton, fullback,
is big and heavy and hard to stop. He failed to gain just three times
against St. Charles when he bucked the line. At runs outside tackles
he’s a bit slow. Loring, the left half, is good but not so dangerous
as Connor. Their quarter is experienced and runs off a fast game. He
seldom carries the ball himself.

“Pearsall will use about the same plays she used last year, from all
the information we have. She has probably a couple of aces up her
sleeve, but so have we. She hasn’t developed forward passing much and
hasn’t been very successful so far with that style of game. Her punters
are ordinarily good. There are weird stories of Loring having made
sixty yards frequently in practice but he’s never shown anything of the
sort in public. There’s no doubt, however, that he owes his place on
the team more to his punting ability than to his running. So it may be
that he’s the nigger in the woodpile.”

“You think then, sir,” asked Muirgart, “that Pearsall has the edge on
us?”

“Surely. I think she’s at least six points better than we are to-day.
Mind you, though, I say _to-day_, Muirgart. Next Saturday’s another
day. Frankly, I’d rather go into a game of this sort with the odds
against us a bit. We’ll realize that we’ve got to fight harder and
we’ll do it. We can beat Pearsall. I don’t say that just as a bluff.
I mean it. We can beat her and we’re going to. We’re going to do it
by getting the jump on her right at the start, by making no mistakes
and by always, everlastingly trying a little bit harder than she does!
Every fellow must go into the game with the determination to outplay
his opponent and the conviction that if he really tries hard he can do
it. Fellows, I’ve seen teams that were admittedly two scores weaker
than their opponents go in and fight and fight and win. I’ve seen it
time and again. It’s spirit that does the trick. Teach two teams the
same amount of football, have them physically even and put them on the
field. What’s going to happen? A tie game? Not once in ten times! One
team or the other will have the better spirit and will win the game!
Well, let’s get down to business.”

They went over the plays then, discussing, arguing. Every play was
judged with relation to Pearsall’s style of defense and her success
against such plays during the season. In the end nineteen only were
retained. As each could be pulled off at both right and left of center
Manning would have at her disposal thirty-eight variations. All
reasonable contingencies were brought up and disposed of. Stuart was
questioned regarding Le Gette’s probable usefulness as a field goal
kicker and gave an encouraging report. “He ought to be tried out in a
game to-morrow, though, Mr. Haynes,” Stuart added. “Kicking a goal is a
different thing when half a dozen wild Indians are charging through on
top of you!”

“I’ve been waiting for the word from you,” replied the coach. “We’ll
give him a trial to-morrow and every other day until Saturday. What’s
the news of Towne, by the way, Laird?”

The Laird took his pipe out of his mouth and shook his head.

“He’ll not play, Coach, save you put him in at the end for a bit. And
I’m thinking that’s not so wise, for he has his letter already.”

Stuart walked back to school with Jack and Fred Locker and said little
on the way. The evening’s proceedings had left him feeling extremely
unimportant, and the feeling wasn’t an agreeable one. The manager
left them to look in at the mass meeting which, as was evident from
the sounds that came from the assembly hall in Manning, was still in
progress, and Stuart and Jack paused at the corner of Lacey. There was
silence between them for a moment, and then Stuart said impulsively:
“Jack, it was a mighty good thing they dished me and made you captain.
You’ve got the brain for it, and I hadn’t. I didn’t realize it until
to-night.”

“Rot!” said Jack indignantly. “Besides, brain――or what you mean by
that――isn’t the only thing a captain needs, Stuart. The right sort of
football captain needs what I haven’t got and never could get.”

“What?” asked Stuart.

Jack shook his head. “I don’t know how to put it into words. It isn’t
exactly popularity, and――leadership isn’t quite it. Those things are
part of it, though. I read about a fellow who was a captain over in
France in the War. He wasn’t popular exactly. Some of his men loved
him but a lot more fairly hated him. But they all _believed_ in him,
Stuart, and they’d have followed him to――to Berlin, and cheered all the
way! I guess that’s about what I’m trying to get at. What that fellow
had is what I haven’t got and what you have, Stuart.”

“I have?” muttered Stuart. “I don’t think I knew it, Jack.” He was
silent a moment. Then with a little laugh that held more of bitterness
than amusement, he added: “If I had, I’ve surely lost it. No one would
follow me to-day as far as the door there!”

“You failed them, Stuart,” answered the other gravely. “But they’ll
come back when you say the word.”

“Come back? Oh――well――I guess there won’t be any coming back. I suppose
I did play the fool, Jack. Just the same, I guess it was better for
the team. You’re a better captain than I was or could have been. I――I
haven’t been awfully decent lately, and――well, you might forget it, if
you don’t mind, and――――”

“Oh, shut up!” said Jack gruffly. “Go to the dickens, will you? Good
night, you poor simp!”

Stuart found Number 12 in darkness. Neil, he reflected, was probably
over at the cheer meeting. Neil had a sentimental streak in him and
loved to get choked up and moist-eyed listening to the Glee Club sing
“Old Manning!” Stuart didn’t light up just then, but pulled a chair
to the window and put his feet on the window seat and looked across
at the lights in Meigs and thought over what Jack had said and what
had happened during the evening and a lot of things. When Neil came in
later he found him still there.

“Hello,” Neil exclaimed, “what’s your trouble?”

“That’s what I’ve been trying to discover,” answered Stuart soberly.




                              CHAPTER XVI

                           LE GETTE EXPLAINS


The cold spell continued well into the middle of the week, with brisk
winds from the northwest and, if rumor was to be credited, a momentary
flurry of snow Tuesday evening. The clicking of the steam in the pipes
had a pleasant sound those mornings when, leaping heroically from bed,
one slammed the window down, hustled shiveringly into a bathrobe and
scuttled along the corridor to the showers. Once inside the swinging
doors, the warm steam-laden atmosphere drove out the chills and almost
invariably, for some reason, induced song. Disrobed figures, darting
in or out of the showers, sang lustily. Robed figures, awaiting their
turns, sang, too. As one had to drown the sound of the spray and
his neighbors’ voices in order to hear and appreciate his own vocal
efforts, the lavatories were so many Babels. At this season football
songs were in favor, and a stranger listening outside could not have
failed to be convinced of Manning’s might and valor and of the
futility of Pearsall’s pretensions!

But one didn’t have to listen outside the lavatories to hear football
pæans those days. Every one sang them or whistled them, in hall, on
campus, along the village street. Already the big cherry-red banner
with the gray M floated beneath the stars-and-stripes from the flagpole
in front of Manning Hall and dormitory windows were showing crossed
pennants or cherry-colored pillows. In the village the storekeepers
were digging out last season’s surplus of flags and megaphones and
arm bands, and over the portal of the town hall the ancient and faded
length of red and gray bunting was once more in place. In short,
Safford was preparing for the big event that came but once in two years
and scorned expense! It was even said that Mr. Hutchins――familiarly
known throughout school as “Blinky”――had recklessly imported from New
York a whole dozen cherry-and-gray four-in-hands the like of which had
never been seen in Safford and, which was even more certain, would
never be seen at Manning! But, although fellows shied from the ties,
they considered that “Blinky” had been very sporting.

Cheer meetings were held nightly, increasing in fervor as the big game
approached. Unknown to fame indeed was he who by Friday night had not
stood at least once on the platform in assembly hall and voiced his
faith in the team! Fellows who never read a newspaper save on Sunday,
and then confined themselves to the magazine and “comic” sections,
hurried to the village after breakfast and meandered back to the campus
with their faces concealed behind the outspread pages of the morning
journals. Studious youths who had hitherto been uncertain whether
a touchback was a player or an article of football attire became
suddenly versed in the rules of the game to the point of argument, and
Nutting, who kept the stationery store, sold the four rules-books that
had caused him sorrow for nearly two years! In fact, Manning School
was undergoing a recurrent malady known as football fever and was
experiencing it in its most virulent form.

On Wednesday, however, the malady had not reached its height, and
morning recitations were fairly normal; something not to be said of
Thursday’s or Friday’s. Stuart and Le Gette put in the usual practice
session on the second team gridiron and Le Gette did seven goals out
of ten tries by drop kicking and four out of ten from placement. When
work was over Stuart announced that the other would have a chance to
show what he could do against the second team that afternoon. If Stuart
expected signs of trepidation in Le Gette he was disappointed. Le Gette
only nodded and said: “I suppose you’ve got to forget the other fellows
and just keep your mind on the kick.”

Stuart had no better advice to offer.

When the trials came Le Gette didn’t do so badly. The first time,
called back from guard position to try a drop kick from second’s
thirty, he showed nervousness but, since his line held fast, he put
the pigskin over. A few minutes later, however, on a second attempt,
an opposing tackle leaked through and hurried him and the ball went
slewing off to a corner of the field. Again he made good, from close
to the twenty, and, just before the end came, he failed miserably at a
placement kick after touchdown. Afterwards, Stuart kept him out until
it was too dark to see the ball, and, with an eager junior chasing the
pigskin for them, drilled Le Gette in placement kicking so strenuously
that all hands, including the willing junior, were thoroughly fagged
out. But on Thursday Le Gette showed improvements both at morning
practice and during the game with the second, and Stuart felt a deal of
pride in the results of his coaching, even before Mr. Haynes sought him
on the bench and congratulated him.

“You’ve done wonders, Harven,” said the coach earnestly. “You’ve pulled
us out of a hole. No doubt about that. Le Gette’s as good right now as
Towne. I’m mighty grateful to you.”

“That’s all right,” muttered Stuart. “He’s worked like a Trojan, Le
Gette has. I’ll say that for him.”

“I guess you both have,” answered the coach warmly. “Perhaps you’d
better ease up to-morrow. Mustn’t overdo it.”

“No fear, sir. Le Gette’s a whale for work. He’ll be twenty per cent
better Saturday. I’m going to keep him right at it until the last
minute.”

“We――ell, all right. Maybe you know best. See that he gets a good
rubbing afterwards.” Mr. Haynes nodded and hurried off, leaving
Stuart frowning after him. The frown was occasioned by the unwelcome
realization that the coach’s commendation had pleased him, and Stuart
didn’t want to be pleased by anything the coach said or did.

There was a stiff, grueling practice that afternoon, in which the first
team rose in its might and, to use Billy Littlefield’s picturesque
metaphor, “chewed the ear off the goats.” Which meant that the first
stacked up fourteen points in the first period and twelve in the
second, and that all the second could do was drop a rather lucky field
goal from the thirty-five yards, aided by a brisk wind. Stuart played
all of that second half and played about as usual. In spite of The
Laird’s advice, he had not dared to put himself to the test. It was
all well enough for The Laird to say that if he was stopped it didn’t
matter, but it did matter. The first was on its mettle those days and
a win over the second was something greatly to be desired, and Stuart
never found a time when, in his judgment, to risk the loss of territory
or, possibly the ball, would have been permissible. So he fed the
pigskin to the other backs or shied it over the line to a waiting end
and never attempted to gain the glory of a spurt outside of tackle or a
“knife” through the line.

Thursday’s work-out was the last before the Pearsall game, although
there was some signal and formation drill on Friday and a short session
for the kickers. The second disbanded with much cheering and romped
joyously off the field, elation over the end of a season’s martyrdom
overweighing the degradation of a 26 to 3 defeat. That was Thursday.
Friday Stuart and Le Gette got in an hour in the forenoon and an hour
before twilight, and Le Gette kicked fourteen out of a possible twenty
drops from various distances and at assorted angles, and Stuart, unable
to dissimilate any longer, slapped his pupil on the back and exclaimed
heartily: “That’s booting ’em!”

That was when the afternoon’s session was over. Le Gette, having
rescued his sweater from the ground faced Stuart with a broad grin. “I
guess I must be pretty good, Harven,” he replied, “to have _you_ say
so!”

Stuart frowned. “Oh, I’m not such a pup as that,” he protested. “You’ve
done mighty well, and――I’m fair enough to say so.”

“Thanks. All right. Let’s wander.” Then, when they had gone a little
way, he turned to Stuart and said: “You’ve got it in for me for
blackballing young Orr, haven’t you?”

Stuart, surprised, stared back an instant. Then: “Yes, I have,” he
answered coldly. “And if it’s the same to you, Le Gette, we’ll keep
off that subject.”

“I thought so. And I didn’t care a whoop. But you’ve been pretty decent
in this business, Harven, and I guess I’d like to have you know that
you’re wrong.”

“Wrong? How am I wrong? Just because you didn’t like me you needn’t
have――”

“Hold your horses,” interrupted Le Gette calmly. “You didn’t get me.
I’m trying to tell you that I didn’t vote against Orr.”

There was a moment of incredulous silence before Stuart laughed
sarcastically. “Go on, you’re doing fine!” he sneered.

Le Gette flushed but kept his temper. “All right,” he said. “If you
take that tone, I’m through.”

Stuart eyed him doubtfully. Then: “There’s no use telling me that,” he
expostulated. “I know you did it. Who else was there?”

“That’s for you to find out,” Le Gette replied shortly. “I’ve told you
that I didn’t do it. Let’s drop it.”

They went on towards the gymnasium in silence, Stuart thinking hard.
After a minute he said: “All right, Le Gette, I believe you. Sorry if
I was rotten. But you looked at me funny that night, and I knew you had
it in for me――――”

“Never did,” answered the other quickly. “Anyway, not until you showed
that you disliked me for some reason. But no matter how I felt toward
you, Harven, I wouldn’t do a dirty trick like that.”

They had reached the steps, and Stuart paused. “Wait a second,” he
said. “I’d like to get this right. It looks as if I’d made an awful
fool of myself. I never had anything against you, Le Gette; I mean
until that happened. You always looked sort of――of sneery, and――well, I
thought you didn’t like me. Then, that night, you had a look―― Maybe I
imagined it――――”

“I guess I looked at you the way you looked at me,” replied Le Gette
gruffly. “You always seemed to think I was a lump of dirt! I don’t say
that I was awfully cut-up about that blackballing, except that I’ve
always sort of liked Neil Orr, for it got your goat for fair. But I
didn’t do it, and I didn’t like you thinking I did. That got me peeved
and I went on letting you think so.”

“Well,” said Stuart helplessly, “it’s mighty funny!”

“Oh, if you don’t believe me!”

“I don’t mean that! I mean the whole thing’s funny; me thinking you had
it in for me and――and blaming you for the blackballing. I――I’m sorry,
Le Gette. Honest, I am!”

“Well, I wanted you to know the truth,” muttered the other.

“I’m glad you told me. I guess I owe you an apology.”

“Oh, I don’t believe so. Can’t blame you for being peeved, the way
things stood. Guess I ought to have explained at the time, only I was
too mad.”

“Of course,” agreed Stuart. Then, thoughtfully: “I wish I knew who did
it!”

“I don’t mind telling you, but I wouldn’t bother to say anything about
it to him because I gave him a dressing down he won’t forget for
awhile. It was young Lantwood.”

“Austin Lantwood! But――why, I thought――”

“Oh, he didn’t have anything against you. It was something that Orr had
done. He didn’t tell me what.”

“I don’t believe it! Neil never did anything against any one! He’s the
squarest fellow in school! If Lantwood says that――――”

“Oh, it probably wasn’t anything really,” interrupted Le Gette.
“Lantwood’s more or less of a pill. Anyway, he won’t do it again, and
if you put Orr’s name up next term there’s no doubt that he’ll make it
all right.”

“I’m going to,” answered Stuart. “How’d you know it was Lantwood?”

“Sort of guessed it. Happened to see his face when Severence announced
the vote. Afterwards, I followed him out and poked a fist at him and
made him come across. He’s yellow and only lied once. Then I gave him
a playful jolt in the ribs and he confessed. It wasn’t any business
of mine, I suppose, but――well, maybe I thought I might want to square
myself some day. Say, let’s go in. I’m freezing to death out here!”

“The little rat!” murmured Stuart as he followed the other into the
warmth of the gymnasium.

“All of that,” agreed Le Gette cheerfully. “But I wouldn’t bother with
him, Harven. I told him I’d break his neck if he ever did anything like
that again. He won’t. Funny thing about it is he’s taken rather a shine
to me since then!”

Later, back in Number 12, Stuart asked: “Neil, what did you ever do to
Austin Lantwood?”

Neil marked a place in his book with a finger and shook his head as he
looked up. “Lantwood? Why, nothing! That is―――― Why do you ask?”

“Well, Le Gette’s just told me that it was Lantwood who blackballed you
for Lyceum.”

“Lantwood! Funny I didn’t think of him,” mused Neil. “Well, I’m glad it
wasn’t Le Gette, anyway. You know, I didn’t think it was, Stuart.”

“Lantwood told Le Gette that you’d done something to him some time or
other. What was it?”

Neil laughed. “Well, last spring I told him he was a disgrace to the
school, and a few things like that, and I dare say he didn’t like it.”

“What for?”

“Why, I found him twisting a kid’s arm one afternoon in the lower
corridor in Manning. The kid was a junior, about thirteen, I guess,
and hardly up to the other chap’s shoulder. He was crying and I butted
in. Lantwood said the kid had called him names and I said I guessed he
deserved it. He wanted to scrap, and I couldn’t oblige him very well,
so I hauled off with one crutch and he beat it. That’s all there was to
it, except that I told him a few things to think over!”

“Well, I’ll be switched!” marveled Stuart. “Think of little Neil’s
losing his temper! Golly, I didn’t think you could do it!”

“I’m not sure that I did just that,” replied Neil reflectively. “I was
indignant, I guess, but I don’t think I was mad.”

“Well, I hope you’ll never get mad at me, then,” laughed Stuart. “I
suppose when you’re really angry you use _both_ crutches!”

“No,” Neil shook his head smilingly, “when I get really mad I don’t say
anything.”

“Hope you remain chatty, old son. Well, Lantwood won’t do it again,
Steve says, and――――”

“_Who_ says?”

“Le Gette.”

“Oh!” Neil hid the amusement in his eyes by bending over his book
again. “Well, I’m glad it wasn’t Le Gette, Stuart.”

“Yes.” After a moment Stuart added: “He’s not such a bad sort, Neil.
I――I was sort of fooled about him.”

“You sometimes are, you know,” agreed Neil mildly.

“Well, when a fellow makes you think he doesn’t like you――――” Stuart
paused. “I’m going to put you up again for Lyceum right after
Christmas recess, and you’ll go through like a shot.”

“All right. Thanks. Now will you kindly let me go ahead with this? Even
if you never study, I’ve got to occasionally!”

“What a rotten subject to mention,” groaned Stuart. “I’m in a regular
mess with Greek. But a fellow simply can’t get his mind on things like
that in the last week of the season. After we’ve trimmed Pearsall――――”
He stopped and was silent a moment. Then: “Know something, Neil?” he
asked abruptly.

Neil nodded without looking up again. “A little something,” he murmured.

“We’re going to get licked Saturday,” announced Stuart in dismal tones.
“Something tells me so.”

“That so? What time is it?”

“Quarter to six――nearly.”

“Wait half an hour then and something will tell you differently. I’ve
always noticed that you’re a bit of a pessimist just before mealtime!”

“Oh, go to the dickens,” murmured Stuart.




                             CHAPTER XVII

                           TASKER GOES OVER


Why, when he had already gone through one Pearsall game, Stuart should
have awakened on the morning of November twentieth with his heart in
his mouth was beyond him. But he did, and all the time he was dressing
and all through breakfast he felt jumpy and scared. He managed to eat
a normal amount of food, although he didn’t want anything but a cup of
coffee, for fear that his table companions might surmise the degrading
fact that he was as nervous as any tyro. It was a relief to get out of
doors afterwards and sit in the sunlight in front of Manning with some
of the fellows and wait for ten o’clock to arrive. At ten he and Steve
Le Gette were to have a final session on the field. He wished now they
had decided to meet earlier.

The weather was well-nigh ideal for football; bright, with scarcely
a suggestion of breeze and the thermometer around fifty. Perhaps by
midday the sun might shine a bit too ardently, but just now it was
very welcome. There were almost no classes this morning; none at all
for the football players; and the holiday feeling was apparent from the
first. Le Gette showed up a quarter of an hour before the appointed
time, to Stuart’s relief, and they went over to the gymnasium and
donned togs very leisurely. There was no hurry now that the tedium
of inactive waiting was past. All either of the boys desired was an
occupation to take their minds from what was scheduled to take place
at two o’clock. They talked freely to-day, and Steve Le Gette found
that there was quite a different side to Stuart Harven from what he
had known. Stuart explained Lantwood’s grievance against Neil and from
that subject the talk slipped to Neil’s appointment as one of the day’s
cheer leaders, Le Gette wondering how he would manage in view of his
dependence on crutches. Stuart was confident that Neil would have no
trouble, though. “He can do about everything any one else can except
walk,” he said. Then, as was fated, the conversation reached the game
and they talked of it all the way over to the field and felt better for
it.

Practice wasn’t very hard this morning. Stuart tried to make Le Gette
more perfect in placement kicking, but it was fairly evident that no
amount of practice would ever bring Le Gette’s place kicks to a par
with his drops. Of the latter he performed several difficult ones,
Stuart placing him at angles such as would probably never occur in
contests. They were not alone this morning, for two or three dozen
fellows wandered over to the field and looked on. Wallace Towne was
one. Towne plainly showed his recent illness, although he told Stuart
that he felt perfectly all right and hoped that Haynes would let him
into the game for a while.

“Wouldn’t mind so much if it wasn’t my last game,” he said. “You’ve got
another year. But I haven’t. Not here.”

“Still you’ve got your letter, old man,” consoled Stuart.

“I know. That isn’t it. I want to smash a couple of ‘Percies.’ Suppose
you’ll get in, eh?”

“I don’t know, Wally. I’m hoping Haynes will let me in for a period.
Guess that’s the best I can expect. I’m playing rotten.”

“Don’t believe it! You couldn’t. You’ll make it. Wish I was half as
certain!”

The advance guard of the enemy had begun to put in an appearance by
the time Stuart and Le Gette got back to the campus, and blue pennants
and arm bands were well in evidence. Luncheon for the players was a
lightweight affair at twelve, at which there was far more talking than
eating. Talk is a splendid outlet for nervousness. After luncheon the
squad went to the gymnasium and walked through half a dozen plays and
listened to a final talk by the coach. Like many of his kind, Mr.
Haynes firmly believed that the team scoring first was the team that
won. Perhaps later he changed his mind, but to-day he still believed
and shared his belief.

“We’re going to get the jump on Pearsall,” he explained. “We’re going
to try mighty hard to score inside the first ten minutes. After we have
scored we’ll play a safe game, but until we have we’re going to take
chances and use every trick that will gain ground. The first punch
is what counts, fellows, and we want to deliver it. I want to see
Pearsall played right off her feet in the first eight or ten minutes.
That means that every one of you must show all the speed and all the
snap you know, and a bit more besides. There’s to be no time called,
no hesitation about signals. Every man must keep on the jump every
minute.”

Manning went over to the field at half-past one. Already the stands
were well sprinkled. The townsfolk had showed their allegiance by
turning out in their bravest array, many of them bringing lunch along
so that they might be early on hand and secure the best seats. The
yearly circus and the Manning-Pearsall football game were the only
events capable of inducing Safford citizens outside their doors.
Pearsall romped on a few minutes later, by which time there was a
sufficient number of her adherents in place to give her a rousing
welcome. That event started the cheering which continued without
respite until the teams took the field. Down in front of the Manning
sections, Stearns Wilson, cheer captain, and McColl, Trenholme and Neil
Orr, his lieutenants, swung their big cherry-colored megaphones and
worked hard. The way in which Neil danced about on his crutches and
waved his arms was a wonder and a delight, and it is no exaggeration
to say that, although his section held a goodly number of visitors
sprinkled in with the students, he obtained quite as good results as
any of the other leaders.

The day had turned just a little too warm for the comfort of the
warriors, but the absence of wind was something to be thankful for and
atoned for the excess of temperature. The Pearsall squad, some thirty
strong, looked hard and eager. Statistics gave the visitors a two pound
advantage in the rushline and placed the backfield average at the same
figure. Five minutes before two Captain Brewton led his squad to the
bench and Coach Haynes summoned Stuart.

“Harven,” he announced, “you’re going to start at quarter. I think you
can run the team somewhat faster than Wheaton, and speed is what we
want. You know the plays. Make them go and make them go fast. I want a
score――a touchdown if we can get it, a field goal if we can’t――inside
of ten minutes. If we haven’t got it then, you come out, Harven.”

“If we have got it, sir?”

“You play the half through, barring accidents.”

“All right, sir. We’ll have it if it’s to be had.”

“It _is_ to be had, Harven, and I want you to feel so. There are two
things to keep in mind every minute. One is accuracy and the other is
speed. Get your plays right and then make them go fast. Get the jump
from the kick-off and never lose it!”

“Yes, sir, I’ll do my best.”

“That’s all I ask, Harven. Your best is mighty good!”

But, although Stuart had spoken confidently enough to the coach, he
was filled with misgivings when he trotted out on the gridiron with
a thundering cheer beating against his ears. Ten minutes was but ten
minutes, and, unfortunately, Pearsall had won the toss and given
Manning the kick-off. He was not through being surprised at his good
fortune when Joe Cutts stepped forward and shot the pigskin away
from the tee. He had hoped to get into the game for a little while;
perhaps for a whole period toward the end; but that he should have been
chosen in preference to Wheaton to start the game was something almost
miraculous. Well, there he was, and Haynes looked for a score in the
first ten minutes of playing time, which, thought Stuart as he raced
down the field behind the ball, was a good deal to expect! But that
wasn’t saying it couldn’t be done. No, sir, not by a long shot! Those
chaps weren’t any better than old Manning. Maybe not so good. Haynes
had said that it was spirit that counted――――

Just then Stuart went slam into a Pearsall tackle, a whistle shrilled
and on the Blue’s seventeen yards a carroty-haired half whom Stuart
recognized as Connor rolled off the ball and scrambled to his feet.

Pearsall tested the Manning center for a yard, massed her whole
backfield on Thurston for two more, gained three through Beeman and
then punted. It was Billy Littlefield, playing back with Stuart, who
caught, and Billy reeled off most of ten yards before he was toppled.
Then, with the two teams facing each other across Manning’s forty-five,
the Cherry-and-Gray began an onslaught that became history.

Statistics, if there was such, would show that ninety-nine times in
one hundred the first attack by a team in an important game is made
at the line. Ninety-seven times in a hundred the second play is also
directed at the line. In short, the attempt is almost invariably made
to try out the opposing defense in the first minutes of play. This rule
is almost as inviolable as the law of gravitation. Recently, however,
a famous scientist has shown that even the law of gravitation has its
exceptions, and it is possible that knowledge of this fact may have
emboldened a lesser scientist――for who dares say that football is not
a science?――to conceive of an exception to the rule alluded to. All
that as may have been, the rule was flagrantly disregarded. Instead
of sending a back experimentally against the enemy’s line, Stuart
watched the ball pass by him into the outspread hands of Leo Burns,
saw the whole backfield, from balanced formation, dash to the right,
saw the Pearsall end neatly boxed by Tasker and Littlefield and saw
Burns tearing over the line. I say that Stuart saw all this, but it
would be nearer the facts to say that he saw some of it and sensed the
rest. For Stuart was busy himself. While Whaley blocked the opposing
tackle, Le Gette and Stuart cleaned out a hole that wasn’t used and
met the first onslaught of the enemy’s backs. Burns, running wide and
without interference, took the pigskin over four white marks before he
was pulled down by the Pearsall quarter. The ball was near the enemy’s
forty-three when it came to light again.

Pearsall looked bewildered, even stunned. More than that, she looked
hurt and injured, as though Manning had played an unfair trick on her.
She had had her rush line all set, every husky player from tackle to
tackle swinging and crouched, ready to repel the attack. And what
had the enemy done? What, indeed, but outrage and transgress one of
the fundamental rules and precedents and go scurrying off around an
unsuspecting end! Pearsall was surprised, disgruntled and sore. The
thing was never done, and Manning had done it! But the Blue had
scant time to nurse her grievance, for never had a team sped back
to positions and cried its signals as quickly as Manning did in the
ensuing five seconds. The Pearsall quarter fairly had to run to get
back up the field ere the ball again went into play. And in those
few seconds the Manning stand was a bedlam of cheers unmeasured but
thunderous.

Again Stuart sent the ball to Burns on a direct pass and again Burns
crossed to the right. But this time the play went outside the tackle,
and, because Cooper, the Pearsall left end, eluded the interference and
managed to get himself in the way, the down netted but three yards, and
it was Pearsall’s turn to cheer. But that was only a momentary pause in
the advance. Littlefield found a hole awaiting him between guard and
tackle and slashed through for three more, and Tasker, faking a punt,
went hurtling into and over the opposing right tackle and, fighting,
squirming, head-down, took the ball for the rest of the distance before
the secondary defense piled on to him.

Pearsall, confused by the opponent’s speed, tried desperately to stem
the tide, tried to meet speed with speed and failed. She was still
dismayed by that first act of treachery, puzzled by a foe who did the
unexpected and kept on doing it. She had been assured that Manning was
an exponent of old-style football who would buck the line so long as
a foot rewarded her. But Manning didn’t seem to realize that Pearsall
had a center and was apparently only partly aware of the existence of
her guards! There was little time for conferences, for Manning leaped
from the ground to position in a breath and her demoniac quarter began
to cry his signals almost before the whistle had ceased! Pearsall was
as nearly demoralized as it had ever been her fortune to be for several
years.

Inside her thirty-yard line, according to all the rules of the game,
her defense should have strengthened and the enemy’s attack slowed
down. Yet nothing of the sort happened. With Pearsall’s backs close
behind her line, well spread to repel end attacks, Manning again did
the improbable. Le Gette fell back to kicking position and Tasker took
his place in the line. Pearsall believed no try-at-goal would come on
second down, and yet there was no telling what such a crazy opponent
would do, and so the backs tried to be in two places at once and were
quite unprepared for the quick, short heave from Stuart to Muirgart.
A Pearsall back did almost spoil the pass since, scenting an end run,
he had sped out at the last instant, but Muirgart pulled the ball down
safely near the twenty-yard line and reached the fourteen before the
frantic Pearsall back pulled him to earth.

The Blue called for time then, something she might better have done
minutes before, and making no pretense of an injury to a player
gathered in close conclave near the goal. A substitute end was whisked
in from the Pearsall bench and was closely watched by the enemy lest
he divulge instructions from his coach before the next play was over.
Stuart fumed at the two-minute delay but had to put up with it. He
and Jack bent and talked in panting whispers. Back up the field,
the Cherry-and-Gray cohorts were chanting “_Touchdown! Touchdown!
Touchdown!_” From the opposite stand the Pearsall contingent was
equally clamorous with its slogan “_Hold ’em Pearsall! Hold ’em
Pearsall!_” Then the whistle piped again.

It was first down, the ball a scant yard past the fifteen and well to
the left of the goal. Stuart, dripping perspiration, his heart thumping
hard, reasoned that Pearsall would look for one of two things, a run
around the left on the short side of the field or an attack to the
right to center the ball in case a try-at-goal became necessary. What
she would doubtless least expect was a straight smash at the left of
the line. And so that is what Stuart called for and that is what Tasker
performed. A fullback split-buck through left of center, with Tasker
taking the ball from Stuart at a hand pass, with Burns and Littlefield
charging to the right, with Brewton and Beeman putting the opposing
guard out and Cutts heaving at the center, took the ball to the eight
yards. Pearsall was shouting hoarsely, frantically, digging her cleats.
The substitute end whispered his order as Stuart yelped for action.

“Come on, Manning! Play fast! Get in there, Thirsty! Signals!”

Again the ball went to Tasker, but this time a scant yard rewarded an
off-tackle play on the right. Pearsall found encouragement and, when
the stick was seen to move but a few feet along the side-line, a wild
shout of acclaim arose from the blue-decked stand.

“Third down!” shouted the referee. “About three to go!”

“Let’s have it!” cried Stuart. “Hard, fellows, _hard_! Here we go! Le
Gette back! Signals!”

“Bust that up!” shrieked the Pearsall captain. “Block that kick! Get
through, Pearsall!”

“Watch for a fake!” shouted the Blue’s quarter anxiously.

Back went the ball, but although Le Gette swung his long leg, it was
Billy Littlefield who snuggled the pigskin to his stomach, put his
head down and dashed like a battering-ram into the line. Before him
went Burns, behind him Stuart and Le Gette. Straight at the Pearsall
right guard he dashed, stopped with a grunt, dug his toes and went on
again. Shouts, grunts, wild confusion of sound and movement, and then,
suddenly, a wavering of the Blue defense! The line buckled, gave! Then
the secondary defense piled in behind it, and the advance paused,
stopped. A whistle blew.

Littlefield, void of breath but grinning, was pulled to his feet.
“Fourth down! About half a yard to go!” droned the referee.

“Let’s have it!” yelled Stuart hoarsely. “Kick formation! Hold that
line, Manning!” Stuart trotted back to kicking position. “Signals!”
Then they came, and Cutts passed the ball back to Tasker and the big
fullback ran out to the left, Burns beside him, Littlefield behind.
Then came Stuart’s frantic “_In! In!_” and Tasker swerved to the right,
Littlefield sent a Pearsall tackle toppling out of the path and, with
the enemy all about him, yet, as though by a miracle, eluding them,
Howdy Tasker――Fame beckoning him on――spun and twisted, dodged and
side-stepped and, finally, with half the Pearsall team clutching and
dragging, spurned the last line and went over!

Almost before the whistle had blown Stuart was sprinting toward the
side line. “How much time is there, sir?” he demanded breathlessly of
the linesman.

“Oh, you’ve got seven minutes yet!” was the reply.

Seven minutes! Then they had scored in eight, well under the coach’s
allowance of ten! Stuart swung his head guard in triumph as he hurried
back. Now if only he could kick the goal! Le Gette picked up the ball
and took it out to the twenty-yard line, Stuart following, and slowly
and cautiously lowered himself to the ground. They were still cheering,
still shrieking back there on the Manning side, and for an instant
the sound worried Stuart. Then he cast an anxious look at Le Gette.
Save that that youth’s lungs were pumping hard, he showed no sign of
perturbation.

“This ought to be easy, Stuart,” panted Le Gette reassuringly, as he
pointed the ball.

“Yes,” agreed Stuart. But there was a noticeable lack of enthusiasm in
that assent. He was wishing with all his heart that he might exchange
places with the other. The old self doubt was back and he was horribly
afraid. Yet he instructed Le Gette with apparent confidence, took a
last look at the bar, stepped forward and kicked. Then he closed his
eyes for an instant, not daring to watch the flight of the ball, and
opened them only when a mighty cheer burst forth from the Manning
stand!




                             CHAPTER XVIII

                          IN THE LAST QUARTER


No team could continue the pace that Manning had set at the start, and
when Cutts had again kicked off from the midfield and Pearsall had
caught and reeled off twelve yards there was a perceptible let-down
in Manning’s speed, and, since the Blue had in the interim between
the scoring and the kick-off pulled herself together, the opponents
appeared more closely matched. Pearsall made her distance once, Connor
carrying the ball around Whaley when two tries at the left of center
had yielded five yards. The Blue’s fullback got two through Le Gette,
but after two more tries at the line Pearsall punted to Stuart on his
thirty-two. He managed to dodge back for five before he was thrown
heavily.

Manning began then a systematic bucking of the Pearsall center and
obtained good results, Tasker and Burns gaining between tackles for
enough to take the pigskin in the Blue’s territory. There an off-side
penalty set her back and Littlefield was caught off the line and dumped
on his head. Stuart punted to the Blue’s fourteen and Pearsall kicked
on second down to Manning’s forty. Manning failed to make her distance
on three tries and Tasker punted. The kick was short and a Pearsall
back landed the ball on his thirty-two. A forward pass grounded, but
on the next play Connor again went around Whaley and reached Manning’s
forty-six. A second attempt at the same play was spilled for a loss and
Pearsall sent her left half close off Thurston for six. The quarter
ended and the teams changed fields.

Pearsall had regained her confidence and showed it, and the Blue
stand was shouting madly. Pearsall brought off her first successful
forward-pass and made it go for nine yards, placing the ball close to
the home team’s thirty-yard line. Pearsall’s quarterback got loose
around his left and added four more, and Coach Haynes hurried Wesner on
in place of Whaley. The Blue was playing desperately and was hard to
stop. Yet from the twenty-six her progress was slower and it required
the tape to determine her right to retain possession of the ball on
the twenty. But she had made her distance by an inch or two, and the
Pearsall supporters went mad with joy. Almost on the threshold, the
Blue became cautious and, using a right shift, concentrated on the
enemy’s tackles. But two tries gained her only three yards and Loring,
her left half, went back to kicking position. As was expected, the
third down became an attempt at a plunge through center, an attempt
that was spoiled by the Manning backs. Then, from the twenty-three,
Loring got the ball on a good pass, dropped it and kicked. Manning
broke through, but, although Jack Brewton tipped the pigskin with his
fingers, the ball went squarely across the bar and the Blue had scored.

The rest of the second period passed without further scoring, although,
with but two minutes to play, Stuart, faking a pass to Tasker, hid
the ball for an instant and then shot straight through the enemy’s
center and dodged and squirmed through the backfield for twenty-eight
yards, landing the pigskin on Pearsall’s twenty-nine. That sample of
the quarterback’s return to his old form brought the Manning cheerers
to their feet, and there they stayed, cheering wildly, imploring a
touchdown. But, although Coach Haynes sped Hanson in for Littlefield
and Hanson and Lowe and Tasker each banged at the Pearsall line or
plunged past tackle, three downs left the Cherry-and-Gray three yards
short of her distance and Stuart and Jack held a consultation. Stuart
was all for risking a forward pass, but Jack preferred playing it safer
on a try at a field goal.

“It had better be Le Gette, then,” Stuart panted. “I’m all in, Jack.
But he can do it.”

“All right! Let’s have it!”

Le Gette looked a little bit pale when he dropped back to the
twenty-eight. The distance was nothing to bother him, nor was the
angle extreme, but this was his first attempt during the game and he
was nervous. And things went against him: Joe Cutts passed high and Le
Gette wasted a valuable moment getting the ball to position: a Pearsall
guard got through between Beeman and Cutts and, although Hanson spilled
him, added to Le Gette’s worriment. As a result the ball started well
but, short of the goal, veered from its path. There was a moment of
doubt that ended with a yell of relief from Pearsall. The pigskin had
passed a foot outside the further upright! Le Gette looked as if he
wanted to cry, but Stuart said: “Hard luck, Steve! You’ll get the next
one!” and the teams lined up once more. Pearsall tried one smash at
the foe and then the whistle blew.

Manning and Pearsall sang and cheered all through the intermission,
Manning with the confidence that a four-point lead gave her, Pearsall
with the hope of ultimate victory. When the teams trotted back again
all previous efforts in the line of cheering were paled by the mighty
welcomes that burst forth from the stands. Pearsall had made but one
change in her line-up, Manning two. Codman was at left guard in place
of Beeman and Wheaton was at quarter. Stuart saw the rest of the game
from the bench. He held no resentment toward Mr. Haynes, for “Wheat”
had proved his right to the position and the coach had fulfilled his
promise. If, secretly, Stuart believed that he could have played that
second half better than his rival, he gave no voice to the belief.
He took what consolation he could from the conviction that he had
performed well while he had been in and tried not to be unduly troubled
by the reflection that had he tried that goal from field instead of Le
Gette, Manning’s score might now be three points bigger.

Pearsall came back for that third period at least twenty per cent
better. What had passed in the Blue’s quarters during half-time
none but the members of the team and their coach knew, but whatever
it was it had had its effect. Pearsall, with her line-up practically
unaltered, took command of the situation at once. Manning gave the
kick-off to Pearsall and when the ball had landed in Muirgart’s arms
near his twenty-five-yard line she kept it but a brief time. Three
rushes proved the enemy’s line too strong, and Tasker punted. Fate took
a hand then. That punt was high and short and was pulled down on the
fifty-yard line. From there Pearsall opened up a new style of attack,
placing her backs, three-abreast, close to her line and keeping the
plays concealed most bewilderingly. She found a weak spot at Codman
and made gain after gain there until Codman was replaced by Baker. She
pulled off two forward-passes that were as successful as they were
daring, using long heaves far down the field to an unprotected end. Six
minutes after the kick-off the Blue was hammering at Manning’s portal
and the Cherry-and-Gray, desperate, was fighting for those final ten
yards.

Pearsall saw victory ahead and was not to be denied. Amidst a continued
welter of noise from the stands, she hammered and banged, gaining two
yards here, three there, making it first down at last on Manning’s six.
Irmo went in for Cutts, who was showing wear, and the Manning center
stood steady. With four yards to go on fourth down, Pearsall, faking
a kick, sent Connor skimming around the right end and, with sinking
hearts, the Cherry-and-Gray’s adherents saw him stagger across the goal
line at the corner of the field. From that touchdown Loring sent over
an easy goal, and on the score-board the white numerals changed from 7
to 3 to 7 to 10!

But there still remained nearly twenty minutes of playing time and,
undaunted, Manning went back to the contest. Pearsall for the rest of
that period seemed content to play on the defensive and punted whenever
the ball fell into her hands in her own territory. Manning found the
Blue line almost impregnable and was forced to use all the tricks in
her bag to make her gains. But luck seemed against her. Forward passes
failed and end runs were as often stopped behind the line as beyond
it. Yet, by hook or by crook, the Cherry-and-Gray managed to make her
distance four times before the whistle ended the third period, though
never once reaching far into Pearsall territory. When the period ended
the ball was Manning’s on her thirty-four yards, following a punt by
the enemy.

Stuart, watching anxiously from the bench, squirmed time and again
as the home team’s plays failed to gain and the minutes sped past.
There was something psychological in Manning’s condition, and Stuart
recognized the fact, although he didn’t use such a long word to
describe it to himself. He merely said: “That touchdown has taken the
starch right out of them!” It wasn’t that Manning didn’t try hard, for
she did. Her men were fairly working themselves to death. But labor and
skill, if ill applied, fail of their purpose, and Manning was somehow
fighting blindly. Stuart recalled a movie comedy he had seen wherein
a man had tried mightily to break through a door in a wall that ended
ten feet further along. The team, he thought, was like that man. It
was wasting its efforts trying to get through what might better be
got around or over. It had tried to get around, to be sure, and it
had tried to get over as well, but it hadn’t tried the right way. In
running the ends it had been advertising the play beforehand, starting
the runner from well behind the line and sweeping the interference
along with him. Why, the veriest idiot could have told what was
coming! As for her forward passes, he could find little fault with the
execution of those. Sheer luck had spoiled them, it seemed. But the
team did have a puzzling forward pass play which was well disguised as
a half back run, and that had not been attempted. More than once he was
moved to speak his thoughts to Coach Haynes, but always something held
him back. After all, the Coach had eyes and doubtless saw just what
Stuart saw. Perhaps when the fourth period began the Cherry-and-Gray
team would find itself again.

While the teams changed fields and water carriers scampered to the side
lines with pails and paper cups, Coach Haynes turned from a conference
with The Laird and summoned Littlefield to him. A few brief words were
exchanged and Billy, throwing off his blanket, ran on. No other change
was made. Yet when Manning had wasted one play on an ill-fated attack
at the Pearsall line on the left of center, she suddenly changed her
tactics, and Stuart, observing, sighed his relief.

“Haynes has sent the right dope, I guess,” he confided to Lowe, beside
him. “Now maybe we’ll see something.”

But Pearsall was not napping, and, although Littlefield sneaked
through between tackle and end on the left, the gain was short. Another
try outside of end went better, but fourth down found them shy three
yards of the required ten, and Tasker booted. This time, catching
near her twenty-five, her quarterback slammed to earth without gain
by Muirgart, Pearsall didn’t kick on first down, nor yet on second or
third. Instead, she began a hard drive on Manning’s left wing, hitting
Brewton and Baker for short gains and then getting past Jack on the
outside for nearly the distance. A fake kick and a quick slam at center
gave her first down on her thirty-six. From there the Blue, abandoning
defensive tactics, took the war into the enemy’s territory in just
seven plays. Muirgart gave place to Jakin at left end and went limping
off to the cheers of the Manning stand. Pearsall worked a quarterback
run for eight and followed with a well-disguised forward-pass that
landed the ball on Manning’s thirty-two. There, however, she hit a snag
and, with a yard to go on fourth down, saw her backs piled up with no
gain. Almost under the shadow of her goal, Manning took no risk of
losing the ball, but, after one futile plunge at right tackle, punted.

Tasker got nearly fifty yards on that kick, and the Manning supporters
yelled their relief and delight. Pearsall started back determinedly
from her thirty-five, gained four around Jakin, gained one at the same
end, made two through Irmo and again kicked. Littlefield caught on
his twenty-seven and swept the ball back to the forty before he was
stopped. Then began another brave attempt to reach the distant goal.
Using C Formation, with the backs spread widely, Manning fought her way
across midfield and started a determined march into the enemy country.
With Tasker back as though to punt, Littlefield and Burns found gaps
time and again and shot through the line only to be brought to earth by
the secondary defense. Yet the short gains were consistent for awhile,
and the pigskin went nearer and nearer the Blue’s goal. But the minutes
were ticking themselves off with fatal rapidity, and as, past the
thirty-five, the gains shortened, and, finally, Burns was thrown for
a loss, Stuart knew that there was to be no victory for the home team
to-day.

On the enemy’s thirty-two, with four to go on fourth down, Wheaton
tried a desperate expedient. Given another five yards or so, he would
be willing to risk a try for a goal from the field, and so, sending Le
Gette back to kicking position and dropping to the ground as though to
hold the ball for a place kick, Wheaton called his signals. Pearsall,
alarmed, held herself ready to break through. Then the ball sped back
into Wheaton’s hands. But instead of kicking it Le Gette only swung
his foot past it, and the next moment Wheaton was on his feet stepping
back, the pigskin poised for a throw. Then Jakin signaled and the ball
sped across the line. It was a fine toss and a fine catch and although
the left end did not get free, he made the twenty-two yards before he
was smothered by the enemy.

The Manning stand saw victory waving, and such a shout went up from
the throats of her devoted hundreds that even the wearied and jaded
players felt the thrill. Manning was racing with Time now, for the
linesman was slowly edging nearer and nearer, his eyes constantly
dropping to the dial of the stop watch in his hand, and it seemed
that Time must win. The two-minute period had already been announced,
and more than twenty yards remained between the Cherry-and-Gray and
a victory. Manning sprang quickly to position, but not so quickly
that the time she consumed did not seem interminable to the anxious
watchers. Pearsall was less inclined to speed, but the opponent made
her hustle. Littlefield tried hard to gain off tackle on the right, but
made less than two yards. Next, what looked like the same play resolved
itself into another forward pass, but this time Wesner failed to get
into place and the pass grounded. Then Fortune again turned her back on
the Cherry-and-Gray warriors. Tasker smashed through between left guard
and tackle for nearly five yards, but the squawking of the horn spelled
disaster and the referee paced off five yards and put the ball back
close to the twenty-five-yard line. Jakin had been caught off-side.

Stuart groaned aloud. Third down and thirteen yards to go! And seconds
instead of minutes left! Would Wheaton waste any of that precious
time on a hopeless rush or would he call on Le Gette for a field goal
from about the thirty-three yards that looked equally hopeless? All
expectation of a victory had been abandoned by the Manning supporters.
Instead, they prayed for a tie score, and, as the precious seconds
ticked themselves away, prayed silently.

Yet that silence was broken before the whistle blew again, for Towne
was running on, and, behind him, four more substitutes, and the
Manning stand answered the cheer leaders’ demand for “A short cheer
for Towne!” for Leonard, for Thompson, for Lowe, for Whiting! Cheers
for those who retired were cut short, for the whistle piped once more,
the referee scuttled to safety and a sigh of relief burst from Stuart.
Le Gette was walking back!

“Twenty-four seconds!” some one was crying as he took his stand. But
that didn’t worry him. The play once begun, time was of no account. It
was the distance and angle that caused him trepidation. He was eight
yards behind the line and the line was close to the twenty-five; and
the nearer goal post was well to his left. Perhaps had he been fresh,
with his lungs not seemingly on the point of stopping work and his
heart not pounding like a sledge, he might have faced his task with
more confidence. But as it was his spine felt more like a column of
water than a thing of bone and his muscles were twitching.

On the stands a deep silence had fallen. Pearsall’s cry of “_Block that
kick!_” had dwindled away. Even the shouts of the opposing players had
lapsed to hoarse mutters as Irmo, sighting, prepared to shoot the ball
back. Wheaton, crouched behind the center, yelped his signals in a
voice that cracked. Steve Le Gette held his trembling hands straight
out, stiffened himself on his wobbling legs. Then came the thuds
of meeting bodies, the rasping of canvas against canvas, the wild,
unintelligible cries, the throaty grunts as Pearsall hurled herself at
the enemy. But came, too, the battered brown ball, turning lazily over
twice on its shorter axis and settling true into the outstretched hands
awaiting it. One more brief glance at the crossbar, a quick turning of
the ball, a single step forward, a powerful swing of a leg! Then forms
blotted the speeding ball from his sight. The enemy was all about him,
plunging past, toppling to the trampled sod.

Up and up, slowly, unconcernedly, went the ball, hung for a moment
against the blue of the sky and arched downward. Midway between the
posts it sailed and, for a fleeting instant, as it began its descent,
it was eclipsed by the white streak of the crossbar!




                              CHAPTER XIX

                        STUART SPEAKS HIS MIND


Ten to ten!

A tied score and victory for neither team!

When the outburst that acclaimed Le Gette’s goal had finally died down
a strange silence descended over the stands. Near midfield the teams
were cheering each other, but the cheers sounded faint and perfunctory.
The groups broke up and the players turned toward the benches and
then, mingling with the throng, hurried off the field. The cheering
section on the Manning side found its voice and broke into measured
sound; a long cheer for the Team, a regular cheer for Pearsall――“and
make it good!”――and another long cheer for Manning. The remnants of the
Pearsall cheering section returned the compliment, and then the stands
emptied.

It was a very quiet throng that flowed over the turf toward the
campus. There is something woefully flat about a tied football game,
and speculation and argument as to what might have happened bring
small comfort. Many of the visitors felt cheated because there had
been no subsequent spectacle, no snake dance with caps and brightly
hued megaphones tossing over the crossbars, no triumphant cheering
and singing. Some departed firm in the conviction that that amusement
should have been provided for them irrespective of the game’s outcome!

In the gymnasium there was plenty of talk, but it flowed levelly, with
no crescendos. Many remarks began with “If” and “But” and ended in
the air. The general atmosphere was one of resentment rather than of
regret, as though Fate had played a sorry trick. Later on, perspective
came to the aid and a more philosophic mood prevailed, but just now
there were moody faces aplenty in the locker room. Outside, the fellows
were gathered before the entrance responding faithfully to Stearns
Wilson’s every demand. Players and substitutes, coaches and managers,
trainer and assistants were cheered loudly, but the sound, booming down
to the wearied warriors, failed to dispel their gloom.

At supper time the entrance of every football fellow was, as usual,
warmly applauded, and cheerfulness was more apparent. Stuart, coming
in a few minutes late, with Neil, was met with a salvo such as had
been accorded only Jack Brewton. Stuart, drawing his chair out, looked
back to see who had followed him into the hall, and was surprised
to discover that the long-continued chorus of “A-a-ay!” was in his
honor. He felt an odd sense of pleasant confusion and tried to hide it
by drinking from an empty water glass. A crowd that included Stuart
and Jack and Neil invaded the moving picture house after supper and,
finding a really humorous comedy to laugh at, returned to school in
better spirits.

But in Stuart’s case the spirits didn’t outlast the night, and when he
awoke nearly an hour before he needed to on Sunday morning and found
the world gray and soggy under a drizzling rain he became horribly
depressed. He couldn’t get to sleep again, but lay listening to the
patter of the drops on the window ledge and faced a blank future. There
didn’t seem to be anything to get up for! Nothing this morning nor any
other morning! Life looked frightfully drab and dull. No more football!
Nothing ahead but lessons! He groaned and pulled a sheet over his head.
Of course, he might go in for basketball. That was pretty good fun.
Or hockey. Either one would at least keep him in training. But for
what? More basketball or hockey! Just now he was in a martyrlike mood
and told himself that he’d never try football again; anyhow, not at
Manning. He had made a dismal failure of it and self-respect at least
forbade his going back to it. They’d elect Howdy Tasker captain next
Saturday evening, probably. Well, Howdy was all right, but he had had
enough of working under some one else. And Haynes would be coaching
again, he supposed. Well, Haynes had been pretty decent lately, he’d
say that, but if he went back to the team next year there’d be the
same old rows! No, he was through with football; plumb, everlastingly
through!

Neil awoke with a prodigious yawn and a backward stretch that knocked
his knuckles resoundingly against the wall. Neil always awoke that way.
Then he sat up and, as Stuart thrust the sheets from his face, blinked
across smilingly. “Hello,” he said. “What time is it?”

“About a quarter to eight,” answered Stuart morosely. “Go to sleep
again.”

“I’m slept out. Gee, it’s raining, isn’t it?”

“No, some fellow’s cleaning his teeth out the window,” said Stuart
sarcastically. Neil brushed the remaining sleep from his eyes and
studied his roommate for a moment in silence. Then:

“Whence the grouch, son?” he asked sympathetically.

“Oh, what’s the good?” asked the other vaguely. “Nothing to look
forward to now but just a lot of beastly studying!”

“Cheer up, Christmas vacation’s only a month away!”

“We-ell,” acknowledged Stuart grudgingly. Then, with triumphant
pessimism: “And after vacation come exams!”

Neil laughed. “I guess you’re beyond human aid this morning! Been awake
long?”

“Half an hour, I suppose. I’ve been thinking.”

“That explains it. Thinking always did have a bad effect on you,
Stuart. What have you been thinking about?”

“Lots of things. About football, for one. I’m going to quit.”

“Why not? The season’s over.”

Stuart scowled. “I mean for good. I’m through.”

Neil digested that startling information a moment. Then he asked
carelessly: “Did it ever occur to you that you might be elected captain
again?”

“_Me?_” Stuart stared across incredulously. “You’re crazy! Not a
chance! Anyhow, I wouldn’t accept!”

“Wouldn’t you? Why?”

“You know why,” replied Stuart shortly. “After what happened this year,
do you think I’d――I’d―――― Anyway, they wouldn’t want me for captain.
And I don’t blame ’em. It’ll be Howdy, I guess. He’ll make a good one,
too.”

“Yes, I think he would,” agreed Neil. But there was a suggestion of
reservation in his tone that caused Stuart to view him suspiciously.

“Look here,” he charged, “for the love of Mike, don’t go around making
cracks like that, Neil!”

“Like what?” asked the other innocently.

“Why, about me being captain next year! Think I want fellows to think
that――that I’m looking for it――or would take it if it was offered?
Well, by golly, I don’t! That would be the limit!”

“All right, I won’t mention it. Suppose, though, some one else
suggested it? Want me to say officially that you’d refuse?”

“Yes, I do! You say it as officially as you know how. But I guess no
one but you would ever think of it, you crazy coot!”

“Well, that’s that,” replied Neil. “Let’s get up and have a good shower
before the gang takes possession.”

“I don’t want any shower,” grumbled Stuart.

Nevertheless, he followed Neil out of bed and down the hall, and
presently he might have been heard whistling a football tune quite
cheerfully above the hiss of the water.

After breakfast, at which meal he consumed rather more food than for
many weeks past, the feeling of depression took possession of him
once more, and it was not until the sermon was nearly finished that
a possible explanation came to him. The explanation held just six
letters: H-a-y-n-e-s! His thoughts went back to a conversation held
long before in the coach’s room, especially to the closing words of
that conversation. “When the season’s over I’m going to give myself
the satisfaction of telling you just what I think of you!” “When the
season’s over I’ll be ready to hear it!” Stuart, remembering, squirmed
in his seat. The season was over and the time had come.

Stuart didn’t hear any more of the sermon, if he had heard any before.

When dinner was done and he and Neil were back in the room he mooned
restlessly around for awhile and then took up his cap. “I’m going out
for a bit,” he explained carelessly.

“Want me to come along?” asked Neil, looking up from the letter he was
writing.

“No, don’t bother,” answered Stuart hurriedly. “I won’t be long.
I――I’ll just mosey around. Maybe walk over to the village or somewhere.
Back soon.”

Neil nodded. “Better take an umbrella. It’s pouring now.”

But Stuart chose a raincoat instead and took himself off, leaving Neil
to gaze reflectively at the closed door and tap the end of his pen
thoughtfully against his teeth.

Stuart wasn’t sure that Mr. Haynes was in town. He might, for all he
knew, have hurried off home by this time. If he had done so, Stuart
would be a whole lot relieved. At least, that’s what he told himself,
only to retract it a minute later. He had something to say to the
coach, something that had to be said sooner or later, and it would be a
heap better to say it now and get it off his chest!

Mr. Haynes answered the door himself when Stuart had rung, Mr. Haynes
in a faded blue dressing gown and slippers, a section of a morning
paper in his hand. He didn’t seem at all surprised to find Stuart on
the threshold, a fact proved by his greeting. “Hello, Harven,” he said
cordially. “Come in. Throw your coat over the chair there. Rather a wet
day, isn’t it? I expected you’d be over.”

Stuart preceded his host into the dim study and took one of the two
chairs drawn close to the long windows. The little park before the
house was dismal and sodden to-day. Mr. Haynes plowed his way through
a litter of papers and sank into the opposite chair rescuing his pipe
from the ash tray and reaching for his pouch.

“The Courant has a pretty good story of the game,” he said as he
filled the bowl. “Have you read it?” Stuart nodded. “Gives you a lot
of credit, Harven, but no more than you deserve. The way you drove the
team in the first quarter was as nice a thing as I ever saw. I dare say
you’ve wondered why I didn’t put you back in the second half, Harven.”

“No, sir, I haven’t. You said it would be Wheaton.”

The coach nodded. “Yes, I said that, but after your showing――” He
paused and lighted his pipe. “I’m going to be honest. You ought to have
gone back, Harven. I believe now that if you had gone back we might
have won. I made a mistake. You see, Wheaton had worked mighty hard,
fairly sweated for us for weeks, and I thought he deserved his reward.
It doesn’t do, though, if you’re a coach, to let sentiment get at you.
I ought to have known better. Well, it’s too late now. Of course, we
might not have won, even if you had been in, but I shall always be
bothered by the possibility. We put up a good game, though, and in
several ways showed up better than Pearsall. For one thing, we were in
better condition. And we have more ground gained to our credit. On the
whole, Harven, we haven’t any cause to be sore over that game. We faced
a good team, a better team than I’d suspected, and if we didn’t outplay
them we came mighty close to doing it!”

“Yes, sir.” Stuart studied his hands a moment. Then, “When it comes to
placing the blame for losing――for not winning, though――” he went on,
“I guess I’ve got a good deal to do with that, Mr. Haynes. I guess if
I hadn’t acted crazy and made things harder for you and thrown up my
job――not that Jack wasn’t a mighty good captain, though: I don’t mean
that, sir! But if things had gone smoother at the first――――”

“I know, Harven. Between us we sort of botched the business, didn’t we?
It wasn’t altogether your fault. Knowing you as I do now, I see that
I was half to blame. I got a wrong impression of you when I took hold
here. My mistake was in not trying to make a friend of you first of
all. You didn’t give me much encouragement, but I should have tried.
You see, Harven, I’ve learned since then that you are hard to drive
but easily led. And you’re loyal. I tried to drive you. That was my
first mistake, and maybe my biggest. I should have set out to win your
friendship. I might not have succeeded, of course, but I should have
tried.”

“I――I guess you would have,” muttered Stuart.

“Succeeded?” Mr. Haynes smiled. “Hang it, Harven, I almost believe I
could have! Anyway, I like to think so.”

“Just the same, there’s no reason for you to take any of the blame,
Mr. Haynes,” said Stuart. “I thought I knew it all, and I didn’t. The
fellows oughtn’t to have made me captain. I didn’t have the head for
it. That’s been proved twice over. I showed rotten judgment lots of
times. It was a good thing for the team that I was chucked.”

“You weren’t chucked,” said the coach earnestly. “No one――I, least of
all――wanted you to resign. That letter to you was badly conceived and
badly written. All any one wanted was to get things running smoothly,
but the Committee went about it the wrong way. When you offered your
resignation I protested against its acceptance. So did Wilson and
McColl. But the majority of the Committee were against us. The majority
had put themselves in a hole, and rather than crawl out they pulled
the hole in on top of ’em. I felt all along that if you and I could
pull together we could go a long way, Harven, but I didn’t know how to
manage you. Well, all that’s ancient history now. There were mistakes
made on both sides, mistakes that aren’t likely to be made again, I
guess. Because, Harven, you’ve got good sense and you’re fair, and
you know that I was right about the two things that caused the most
friction between us. I mean the abolishment of training table and the
injustice of barring Le Gette from the team because of something he had
done to offend you personally. I made plenty of mistakes, but on those
two things I was right. Isn’t that so?”

“Yes, sir,” answered Stuart honestly. “The fellows were in better shape
this year than they were last. There wasn’t any slump this year, and
last year there was. And about Le Gette, why, he――I found out just the
other day that he didn’t do what I thought he did.”

“I’m glad to hear it,” replied the coach heartily. “And even if he had,
Harven, I still would have been right in not sacrificing him to your
personal animosity. Don’t you agree with me?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Good! I’m not ‘rubbing it in,’ Harven. I’m not always right in my
premises and judgments, any more than any one else is, but I wanted
to know that you recognized that in those things I was right and that
you were fair enough and frank enough to say so. Because if it should
happen that we were to work together again next fall it would make
it easier for both of us. Perhaps I haven’t expressed myself very
clearly, but I guess you get what I’m driving at.”

“Yes, sir. But I don’t believe I’ll be playing next year.”

“What? Why not?”

“Oh, I don’t know,” answered Stuart vaguely.

“Well, I certainly hope you will. If I came back I’d surely need you.”

“But you _are_ coming, aren’t you, sir?” asked Stuart.

“I can’t say. You see, I was engaged for this season only. Although it
wasn’t set down in the contract, it was naturally understood that a
renewal of the contract depended on my success with the team this fall.
Well, I don’t know how the Committee on Athletics view the result. In
some ways we had a good season. We won five games, lost two and tied
one. We got through without injuries worth speaking of, although the
credit for that isn’t mine. If we had won yesterday’s game I might
fairly claim success. Between you and me, I still claim it. But the
Committee may not look at it as I do. Results are what count, Harven,
and there’s no getting around the fact that we didn’t win our big
game.”

“Oh! But we didn’t lose it, either, sir. That ought to mean something,
I’d say. Besides, I guess all the fellows think that you did mighty
well. I do, anyway. I thought, of course, you were coming back.”

“Perhaps I shall,” replied the coach, smiling.

“Not that you’d care much, I suppose,” added Stuart. “I guess you
wouldn’t have much trouble finding a job!”

“Perhaps not, but it doesn’t do a coach any good to change too often.
I’ve been at it four seasons and this is my third place. That doesn’t
sound very well, does it? I was at Erskine College the year after I
graduated and then I went to Fisherville and stayed two. I left there
because Manning offered me more money, and I needed it. I don’t expect
to spend my life as a football coach, Harven, but while I’m at it I
want to do the best I can. I’ve got a sort of a law practice back home,
but it’s only the start of one, and I can’t afford to depend on it yet.
You see, there’s a family at home, too, and they have to live.”

“Oh, I didn’t know you were married, sir!”

“I’m not. The family consists of my mother and two sisters, unmarried.
One of my sisters looks after the office while I’m away, but there
isn’t much to do, unfortunately. My town’s a smallish one and there
are two lawyers already established there. It’s slow work to build a
practice, Harven, in a place like that.”

“I should think it would be,” mused Stuart. “I think I’d rather coach
football than be a lawyer, anyway.”

“It doesn’t lead very far, though. I hope that I’ll be in a position to
drop it after another two years. Meanwhile, I’d rather stay here than
look for a new place. Next year ought to see a whale of a team here.
Look at the material we’ll have: you and Hanson and Thurston and Burns
and Tasker――no end of good players. Why, we can start with practically
a veteran team! And we’ve laid a good foundation this fall, Harven:
we’ve got a system at work. Whoever has the job of coaching next fall
will have a cinch!”

“You bet! We’ve got some corking second-string fellows, too, Mr.
Haynes: Lowe and Leonard and――and Thompson――”

“And Irmo. He has the making of a fine center. And we’d be pretty well
fixed for guards with Beeman and Le Gette. Le Gette played a fine game
yesterday. And if it hadn’t been for his field goal we’d have lost. I
want you to know, Harven, that I certainly appreciate the work you did
with Le Gette. I don’t believe another chap on the squad could have
taught him what you did in that short time.”

“He was a mighty good learner,” said Stuart warmly. “You simply
couldn’t tire him! Lots of times I’d want to quit and he’d keep me at
it. With Le Gette kicking field goals next year we’d ought to be pretty
well fixed.”

“Yes, but I’m hoping you’ll share that duty with him,” said the coach.

“Well, I don’t know,” murmured Stuart. “If you don’t come back――――”

He stopped suddenly and felt the blood creeping into his cheeks and, to
hide his hideous embarrassment, jumped to his feet.

“I must be getting back,” he said. “Neil will think I’m lost or――or
something!”

“Must you? Well, I’m glad you dropped in. Do it again before I go,
won’t you? I’m sticking around until the last of the week. Oh, by the
way,” he continued as they shook hands, “wasn’t there something you
wanted to say to me after the season was over?”

Stuart caught the kindly quizzical gleam in the other’s eyes and
grinned sheepishly.

“I――I guess I’ve said it,” he muttered.




                              CHAPTER XX

                      “FOR THE GOOD OF THE TEAM”


The football banquet and election was held the Saturday after the
Pearsall game, as was the established custom. Coach Haynes, urged to
remain for it, did so, and sat at the head of a long table in the
upstairs parlor of the village hotel, for the occasion transformed
into a banquet hall and hung with cherry-and-gray streamers and flags.
All players who had taken part in the Pearsall or Brown games were on
hand, as were Mr. Pierson, chairman of the Committee on Athletics, the
manager and Assistant manager and The Laird. In all, twenty-six persons
sat down to the feast, and good-fellowship and jollity held sway from
oysters to ices. Mr. Pierson spoke and Mr. Haynes spoke and――well,
about half of the number said their say before the feast was over. Even
The Laird was lifted to his feet and compelled to say something; and it
is only fair to add that The Laird, although slow at the start, did
extremely well once he had forgotten his embarrassment, and had the
whole company convulsed. And, of course, there was singing, a whole
lot of singing that, no matter if it wasn’t beyond criticism, sounded
mighty well down below on the sidewalk where, after the movie theater
had closed its doors, a half-hundred Manning fellows stood and waited
to learn the result of the election. There was a well-defined rumor to
the effect that the election was “fixed,” but rumors are not always
correct. In any case, the rumor produced no expressions of indignation.

It was nearly half-past ten when Mr. Pierson took his leave, pursued
down the stairs by the vocal assurance that he was a jolly good fellow.
Mr. Haynes, too, would have left then, but by unanimous――and extremely
loud――protest was induced to keep his place. The Laird always had
witnessed the elections and so he simply drew a chair to a window and
stuffed his pipe with evil-smelling tobacco. It was Jack who rapped for
order with the lid of a sugar bowl and announced that nominations for
the captaincy were in order.

Wally Towne and Harry Leonard found their feet simultaneously and,
although Leonard was both nearer and larger than the other, Jack
looked right past him and gravely said: “The Member from the Hospital
has the floor!”

“It gives me great pleasure,” announced Towne when the laughter had
subsided, “and――er――does me much honor to place before you the name of
one whose right to the captaincy of the team is incontestable. It would
be a waste of time for me to set forth this gentleman’s qualities,
because you all know them as well as I do. Fellows, I nominate Stuart
Harven!”

There was a din of clapping and cheers. Stuart, struck dumb by
surprise, stared incredulously at the speaker. Then he was on his
feet. “Fellows! Mr. Chairman!” But others were before him, several
others, and Jack, glancing mockingly at Stuart, recognized Tasker. Tom
Muirgart, at Stuart’s left, pulled him forcibly back into his chair.

“Shut up,” he said sternly. “You’re out of order!”

“But I don’t want――I won’t accept――――” stammered Stuart.

“Order!” called Jack, thumping vigorously with the sugar bowl lid. “Mr.
Tasker has the floor.”

“Mr. Chairman, and fellows,” began Howdy, “in seconding the nomination
of Harven I’d like to say a few words.”

“Go ahead, Howdy!”

“Who’s stopping you?”

“You tell ’em, Old Timer!”

“Towne says it would be wasting time to say anything about the nominee,
but I don’t agree with him. I’ll say there’s a lot to say about him.
I’ll say――――”

“Take a fresh hold, Howdy!”

“I’ll say――” Howdy gulped and started over. “Look what happened this
fall. We elected Harven captain and he got out. I don’t pretend to know
all the facts, but I do know that there were mistakes made. Whether
Harven made them or the Ath. Fac. or Coach Haynes doesn’t matter. Maybe
they all made ’em. Anyway, it’s all over and past now. But what I want
to say is this. There aren’t many of us would have acted better than
Stuart Harven did under the circumstances. He didn’t sit down and sulk.
He saw that he was needed on the team and he walked right back and――and
enlisted as a private! And he worked hard and he made good. Every
fellow who played during those first ten minutes of the Pearsall game
knows that he did. I haven’t got my breath yet! He mighty near drove us
off our feet, but we liked it and loved him for it and――and, by gosh,
we got there! If I never play football again I’ve had my money’s worth,
fellows! And if I play twenty years I’ll always remember that touchdown
and be proud that I had a hand in it! Now, I’ll say that a fellow who
can handle the team like that, and――and who is the sportsman that
Harven is, why, I’ll say――I’ll say――――”

But Tasker didn’t have to say any more, for the cheers drowned his
voice, and after moving his lips a moment longer he sat down. Half a
dozen others demanded recognition, among them the frantic Leonard, and
Billy Littlefield was the fortunate one.

“I’d like to say――if I can make myself heard――that I second the
nomination of Harven, and I move that we cut out the red tape and
declare him unanimously elected!”

“Seconded!” “Atta boy! Let’s call it a day!” “Harven!”

Jack rapped strenuously. “We’ll have to do this in order,” he
announced. “Are there any further nominations?” He looked inquiringly
at Leonard, but Leonard, into whose ear Leo Burns was talking
emphatically, made no move. Jack whanged the lid down. “We’ll proceed
to ballot,” he said gravely. “Gentlemen, is it your pleasure――――”

“Hold on!” That was Stuart. In spite of the efforts of Muirgart and
Thurston, beside him, he managed to get to his feet. “I’m――I――It’s
mighty good of you fellows, and I appreciate it, but I can’t accept. I
mean it. I’ll work hard next year and do all I know how, but you’ve got
to elect some other chap. I had my whack at being captain, and I made
a mess of it, and I’m through. Any one of you will do better than I
could. I nominate Howard Tasker. He――――”

“You’re out of order, Mr. Harven,” said Jack sternly. “The nominations
are closed!”

“All right, but――――”

Jack pounded vigorously, and Stuart, still protesting, was yanked back
into his chair.

“I move that a standing vote be taken, Mr. Chairman!” called
Littlefield. Several seconds were heard.

“Moved and seconded,” droned Jack, “um-um-those in favor-um-contrary
minded-um-um-carried! Are you ready for the vote? Those in favor of
the election of Stuart Harven to the captaincy will rise and remain
standing while――――”

Every one save Stuart was on his feet in the instant, cheering, and the
balance of Jack’s oration was lost. Even Coach Haynes found himself
standing, and, smiling apologetically, sat down again. Leonard, who
had entertained the mistaken idea of nominating Hanson, was shouting
as loud as any. Jack’s announcement of the result wasn’t heard beyond
the sugar bowl whose lid he was rapidly pounding out of shape. Tom
Muirgart, grinning, rumpled Stuart’s hair.

“You’re elected, son!” he chuckled. “Get up and make a speech!”

Stuart swallowed hard, grinned in a sickly fashion and shook his head.
“All right,” he muttered. “But――but it was a put-up job, Tom!”

“Sure it was!” roared Tom. “It was all fixed. Neil Orr warned us that
you’d refuse, and so we had to――――”

“Speech!” “Get up there, Cap!” “Speech, Harven!” “Shoot, son!”

Stuart arose, more embarrassed than he could remember ever having been
in his life. Comparative silence had been restored and two dozen faces
were fixed expectantly on him. But the faces all expressed liking and
good will and Stuart found courage.

“I meant what I said, fellows, but it didn’t seem to make much
difference. So――well, I accept.”

“You bet you do!” agreed Jack from the end of the board. “You’re
elected!”

“All right, but――you’d have done a heap better if you’d selected some
one else. Just the same, I thank you, and――and I’ll do my best; and it
will be a better best than last time! I made a lot of mistakes, but I’m
not going to make them again. Next year things will go a heap better,
and if we don’t lick Pearsall to a stiff froth I――I’ll eat my hat!”

Enthusiastic applause greeted that prophecy. When he could make himself
heard again Stuart continued. “There’s something else I want to speak
about, fellows. We’ve just got to have Mr. Haynes back next year. You
don’t need me to tell you that. But I understand that the Committee on
Athletics may not be satisfied with his work because we didn’t lick
Pearsall. That’s poppycock. It wasn’t his fault. Every fellow here
knows that we had a far better team this fall than last. We were in
better physical shape and we knew more football. Now it seems to me
that it would be a mighty good plan to let the Ath. Fac. know how we
feel about Mr. Haynes, let them know that we want him back next year;
yes, and the year after that! I propose that we get up a petition and
sign it all around and hand it in. It ought to have some weight with
them, and as I understand that they are to make a decision the first of
next week, the sooner we do it the better. That’s all, I guess. Except
that I thank you fellows again for the honor you have done me.”

Stuart sat down again while the table cheered long and heartily.
Thurston sprang to his feet, but, seeing that Mr. Haynes was also
standing, seated himself again. “After you, Coach,” he said.

“Thank you,” replied Mr. Haynes. “I only want to say that I appreciate
Harven’s words. I feel very proud and, at the same time, rather humble.
How well I’ve succeeded this season is for you to judge, but I am
conscious of having tried hard, and, while I made mistakes, I have
learned by them. To know that I have retained your liking and that
you still have faith in me is――well, it makes me feel pretty good. I
congratulate you on the choice you have made, for, no matter what he
says, I know that Stuart Harven is the man for the job. We’ve had our
differences of opinion, he and I, but we’ve got over them. What he says
about another year I subscribe to heartily, fellows, and if he has to
eat his hat I’ll help him! I’ll be right on hand to do it because the
Committee on Athletics very kindly offered me a contract for two years
more this afternoon and I signed it!”

Pandemonium reigned supreme then. Billy Littlefield started “For he’s
a jolly good fellow” and every one joined. The beauty of that song is
that you don’t have to know many words and you can keep on singing it
as long as your voice will hold out. In the end, however, it changed to
the school song, and while that was still in progress some one started
downstairs and the others followed and, still singing, the party made
its way out to the sidewalk, where, the news announced, cheers drowned
the song.

A few minutes later Stuart found himself walking back to school with
Jack’s arm linked in his. Before and behind were others, laughing,
singing, sometimes cheering, but at the campus the throng separated
into smaller units and ultimately Stuart and Jack found themselves
alone in front of Lacey.

“Come on up for a minute,” urged Stuart.

“Pretty late, isn’t it?”

“Yes, but it doesn’t matter to-night. I shan’t get to sleep for hours,
and――I want to talk things over.”

So they made their way through the silent corridors to Number 12, to
find Neil still up and dressed, an expectant grin on his face. Stuart
shied his cap at him. “I’ll bet you had a hand in it,” he charged.
“That villainous grin gives you away, old son!”

“Not guilty!” Neil laughed. “I told every one you wouldn’t accept,
didn’t I, Jack?”

“You did, Neil, you certainly did,” assented Jack gravely.

Stuart grunted. “Huh, a lot of attention you fellows paid to him, I’ll
say!”

Jack grinned. “We certainly did. We stuffed the ballot box, old son. We
saw that it wouldn’t be any use to tender the captaincy to you, so we
stuffed it down your silly throat!”

Stuart’s pretended indignation faded to a smile as he sat himself on
the window seat and took one knee into his hands. Jack perched beside
him and Neil swung his chair around to face them after he had turned
down the light halfway. “Who started it, Jack?” asked Stuart.

“I don’t know, really. Nobody, I guess. That is, it seemed to be
sort of taken for granted all around that you were to have it. The
only――only conspiracy was to-night before dinner. Then we sort of
fixed to railroad the election through. You weren’t to have any chance
to refuse it, or, if you did kick up your heels, we weren’t to pay
any attention to you. Of course, everything was strictly according to
Hoyle――――”

“Yes, it was!” jeered Stuart. “Suppose I didn’t see how you refused to
recognize Harry Leonard?”

“Well,” said Jack, “Leonard was only delaying traffic. He had a fool
notion that Tom Hanson wanted the election.”

“Didn’t he?”

“Who, Tom? I don’t believe so. Anyhow, he hadn’t a chance, and it was
an act of simple kindness to keep him from making a show of himself.
Besides, I did give Leonard a chance to speak his little piece, and he
wouldn’t.” Jack grinned. “That was after I’d seen Leo talking to him.
Maybe Leo showed him the futility of――er――his course.”

Stuart grunted again, and Neil said wistfully: “I wish I’d been there!”

After a moment’s silence in the dim room Stuart said thoughtfully:
“Well, there wasn’t anything to do but accept, but――but I don’t see yet
why they did it. After the failure I made of it this time, and all!”

“They did it for just one thing, Stuart,” replied Jack earnestly.
Stuart looked the question. “They did it for the good of the team.”

       *       *       *       *       *

The talk died away and each of the three boys sat there in the
half-darkness and thought his own thoughts. Stuart’s excitement had
given place to a feeling of contentment and well-being and good will.
His thoughts passed over his school life, and, while he saw very
clearly the many mistakes he had made, he was not disturbed. Wasn’t
it Mr. Moffit who had said that one learned by mistakes? Well, he had
learned, he told himself, and whatever the mistakes of the future might
be, they’d not be the old ones. Thinking forward, he made many good
resolutions, most of which, it is only fair to say, he kept. A yawn
from Jack broke the long silence.

“I was almost asleep,” he said. “You night owls can stay up if you
like, but I’m going to bed.”

“Don’t break up the party,” begged Stuart plaintively. “Say, I wish you
were going to be here next year, Jack. I’ll miss you, you old coot.”

“Thanks; same to you. I guess, though, you’ll be much too busy to
miss any one, old son. You’ll have a football team to look after,
and, speaking from brief experience, I’ll say that’s a man-sized job!
Stuart, if you don’t beat Pearsall next year I’ll come back and lick
you!”

“You’re permitted to come back and _try_!”

“Huh! Well, just you see that I don’t have to. Here’s Neil to look
after, too. Don’t forget that. That’ll keep you busy, you know; he’s
always getting into trouble.”

Stuart failed to note the twinkle in Jack’s eyes. He looked across at
his roommate and nodded gravely.

“That’s so,” he assented. “Some one’s got to look after old Neil.”


                                THE END




 Transcriber’s Notes:

 ――Text in italics is enclosed by underscores (_italics_).

 ――Printer’s, punctuation, and spelling inaccuracies were silently
   corrected.

 ――Archaic and variable spelling has been preserved.

 ――Variations in hyphenation and compound words have been preserved.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FOR THE GOOD OF THE TEAM ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
The Project Gutenberg eBook of The valley of lost herds, by W. C. Tuttle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The valley of lost herds

Author: W. C. Tuttle

Release Date: May 22, 2023 [eBook #70832]

Language: English

Produced by: Roger Frank and Sue Clark

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE VALLEY OF LOST HERDS ***

THE VALLEY OF LOST HERDS

by W. C. Tuttle

A New Kind of Ranch Foreman Deals with Cattle-Rustlers


The big Tomahawk--saloon, gambling palace, honkatonk--blazed with
lights. Cowboys jostled each other at the long bar, or laughed and made
merry with the girls who thronged the rooms. The roulette whirred, poker
chips rattled and the voices of the dealers droned above the roar of the
crowd.

It was the big night of the month in Tomahawk--pay night on the Reber
ranches. And pay night on the Reber ranches meant that all the small
ranches to the north would also pay off and let their men come to town.
There was no limit to anything. Reber owned the Tomahawk Saloon; owned
nearly everything else in the town of Tomahawk, as far as that was
concerned.

And with one exception he owned all of Reber Valley. It had been known
as Tomahawk Valley, and was still Tomahawk Valley on the map, but to
those who lived there it was Reber Valley. For Park Reber owned the M
33, Half-Wheel, Circle S, Two Bar X and the Lightning. There was really
only one ranch he did not own, the S Bar P. There was another little
place twenty miles south of Tomahawk which belonged to Jack Silver, who
had never registered any brand. So, outside of the S Bar P, Park Reber
really owned the valley.

In an area thirty miles long by about fifteen miles in width Park Reber
was supreme--a real cattle baron. And Park Reber sat in his big house in
Tomahawk town, all alone except for a Chinese cook, and gloated. He was
_the_ big man of the country--big and lonesome. And sometimes he was
mad, they said. Men worked for him, spent their money in his saloon and
gambling house; but none of them admired him.

He was about sixty years of age--white-haired, harsh of feature, his
deep-set eyes gloomy. Over his left eye was a white scar like a crescent
moon, and he often touched it, as if it annoyed him. He drove his men
hard, demanded results and got most of their wages back _via_ the green
cloth.

It had taken him twenty years to become owner of the valley.

His herds, the Diamond R brand, roamed the many hills. While his ranches
were all designated by their original brand names, all the stock was
branded with the Diamond R. Other ranches shipped from Tomahawk, but the
Diamond R was the heavy shipper. They owned the loading corrals--or
rather Reber did.

Park Reber did not come often to the Tomahawk Saloon, but he had been
coming oftener of late. Some said it was because of June Meline, the
tall, black-haired beauty who played the violin. She was not a fiddler.
There seemed a difference between June Meline and the rest of the girls
of the honkatonk. Her white skin was untouched by rouge or paint and
there was an imperious lift to her well shaped head. Nor did she mix
with the others.

Park Reber loved music and most of all he loved the wailing notes of her
violin. Often she had come to his table to talk with him. She refused
drinks, but liked to discuss with him his business troubles. Some said
she was trying to “rope-in” the old man, but Park Reber knew better. He
admired her level-headed way of looking at things.

And on this pay night Park Reber came again, taking his usual table,
where he might drink and watch the show. With him was “Slim” Patterson,
foreman of the Half-Wheel ranch. Their table was near the platform,
where the three-piece orchestra rattled out its tin-panny music.

The show was just at its height as they sat down. There was a burst of
applause as June Meline came out carrying her violin. She was dressed in
black silk, which accentuated the pallor of her skin. Only the piano
played her accompaniment, and as she lifted her violin the pianist
hesitated.

Some one had spoken a word aloud--the name of a man.

“‘Buck’ Priest!”

And there he stood, not more than six feet away from Park Reber, backed
by two of his men. It was the first time Buck Priest had ever been in
the Tomahawk Saloon. He was as old as Park Reber, possibly older. He
wore his hair long, but his thin, evil face, with the hawk-bill nose,
was smooth-shaven. He wore a silver-trimmed sombrero, buckskin shirt,
gray trousers tucked in the tops of his high-heeled boots, and around
his waist was a wide, beautifully carved leather cartridge belt
supporting a holstered Colt.

The men with him were hard-bitted cowboys--fighting men of the S Bar P.
It took nerve for Buck Priest to lead his men in among the cowboys of
the Diamond R. But Buck Priest had nerve. He had fought Park Reber until
Reber had told his men to leave the S Bar P alone.

At one time--over twenty years ago--these two men had been comrades.

It was evident that Buck Priest was drunk this night. He was not a
drinking man, but once a year Buck Priest would get drunk; and when he
got drunk, he was so cold-blooded that even his own men did not wish to
associate with him.

It seemed as if every man in the room were holding his breath. Park
Reber got slowly to his feet, and Priest laughed harshly.

“You dirty old cow thief!”

Buck Priest fairly hissed the words at Reber.

“You sneakin’ old rustler!”

No one moved; no one spoke. The two men, one on each side of Buck
Priest, were bent forward tensely, their eyes sweeping the room, ready
to draw and shoot at the first move. Park Reber’s eyes blinked angrily,
but he held still, staring at Buck Priest.

“I’m talkin’ to you, Reber,” said Priest slowly. “Callin’ you a thief.
And you ain’t gut guts enough to deny it. You’ve rustled my cows just as
long as you’re goin’ to, Reber. I’ve come into the lion’s den to tell
yuh what I think of yuh, you cow thief!”

There could be but one answer to that accusation. Reber had been a
gun-man, but of late years he had left that distinction to his hired
men. He did not wear a belt and gun, but under his left arm-pit was a
holstered Colt; and now he jerked back, reaching for this concealed gun.

It was what Buck Priest wanted, what he came there to force Park Reber
to do--reach for a gun. His hand streaked down to his thigh and whipped
up a big black-handled revolver. For a fraction of a second Park Reber’s
life was not worth a penny. Something flashed between Reber and Priest
just as Priest pulled the trigger--something that smashed against
Priest’s hand and arm, partly ruining the shot which was intended for
Park Reber’s heart.

The big gun thundered as Buck Priest jerked sidewise. Park Reber stepped
backward against his chair, tripped and fell to the floor. Priest and
his two men whirled and headed for the doorway, and the crowd gave them
plenty of room.

Men lifted Reber to his feet and then set him in a chair.

“That fiddler girl!” exclaimed one of them. “She threw her fiddle and
hit Buck Priest on the arm.”

The girl sprang from the platform and was at Park Reber’s side in a
moment, and he smiled at her. Slim Patterson ripped away the shoulder of
his coat. The room was in an uproar. No one thought of going after Buck
Priest. Some one went after a doctor, who came in a few minutes.

The bullet had struck high in Reber’s shoulder, and he was quite ill.
The doctor, skilled in gunshot cases, told him he was very lucky. Some
one had recovered the violin, but it had been walked on until it hardly
resembled an instrument. The girl looked ruefully at it, but said
nothing.

Several of the cowboys secured a cot, using it in lieu of a stretcher,
and carried Reber home; but not until he had received June Meline’s
assurance that she would act as his nurse.

“I wish you would,” said the doctor. “Nurses are hard to find out here.
And, anyway, your violin is broken.”

“I’ll buy yuh a carload,” said Reber weakly. “Don’t leave me alone with
Hop Lee and this darned doctor. I’ve got lots of room up there, June.”

And so June Meline became nurse for Park Reber. She knew little about
nursing and told Park Reber so. But he grinned painfully and told her he
didn’t know much about being shot, as far as that was concerned.

She took up her residence in the big old house, which was really a
ranchhouse, in the town. Hop Lee, the old Chinese cook, who cared for no
one except Park Reber, took to June and actually smiled at her.

It was a new sensation to Park Reber, this idea of having a woman
around. Not in nearly twenty-five years had he seen a woman in his
house. His five foremen came at irregular intervals to report to him,
and June often heard the name of Buck Priest spoken.

There was another name that caused Park Reber to curse--the name of Jack
Silver.

It seemed that Jack Silver’s name was connected with the word “rustler.”
There were two of these foreman that June did not like--Nort Jackson of
the Lightning and Dave McLeese of the Two Bar X.

Nort Jackson was tall, thin, swarthy, black of eye, and wore a weak
black mustache. He smiled at her too much, June thought. McLeese was
ruddy of skin, with cold blue eyes under huge blonde brows. His nose had
been broken across the arch and a huge scar twisted his mouth into a
leer. Reber told her McLeese had been kicked in the face by a shod
horse.

                   *       *       *       *       *

It was several days after the shooting of Reber. Up to this time he had
not mentioned Buck Priest to her. The doctor had finished dressing the
wound and had given her orders for the feeding of the patient. Reber had
been watching her closely for quite a while.

“Gettin’ tired of bein’ nurse to an old man?” he asked suddenly.

June smiled at him and shook her head.

“No, I’m not tired, Mr. Reber.”

“That’s good. I like you, June. You saved my life that night. Buck
Priest is a good shot. He meant to kill me, yuh see. You shore thought
real quick, June. You’ve got a head, girl. I’ve watched yuh around here
and I’ve talked to yuh. You’ve got sense--too much sense to be playing a
violin in a honkatonk.”

June smiled at him.

“One must eat, Mr. Reber. And you have paid me better than I could get
any other place.”

“You’ve earned it, June. I wondered how they’d take yore kind of music.
But cowboys are sentimental. I’ve seen ’em cry over yore music. Give the
average cowboy a few drinks and he’ll cry over ‘Home Sweet Home’. Yes,
they will, June. Lot’s of ’em never had a regular home; lots of ’em were
kicked out early in life--but they’ll cry, just the same.”

“I suppose,” said June, nodding.

“And you never asked me anythin’ about Buck Priest. That night he called
me a dirty cow thief, didn’t he?”

Park Reber smiled bitterly.

“Mebbe Buck was drunk. He’s hated me for years, June. Oh, I’m no angel.
I tried to run Buck out of this country. He’s a fighter. He’s not sorry
he shot me, but sorry he didn’t kill me.”

“Why didn’t you have him arrested, Mr. Reber?”

“Arrested? For shootin’ me? Why, no, June, it was an even break. My
shoulder-holster--well, it isn’t a fast draw. I’d have killed him. Oh,
he hates me! Funny, isn’t it, June? We used to be pardners--me and Buck.

“And it was all over a woman--a woman like you, June. She was like you
in lots of ways, I think. The valley wasn’t what it is now. Tomahawk was
a tradin’ post. This girl came here with her family in a covered wagon.
I was in the south end of the valley at that time, where me and Buck had
a small herd of cattle. Buck was here at the post, and met her.

“He was two days late bringing in supplies, and when he came he told me
about her. I told him he was a fool to even think of a girl. It was a
bad country to bring a girl into. The Cheyennes were unfriendly then,
and there were a lot of them in the valley. They stole cattle and
horses. It kept us busy protectin’ our herds.

“But Buck went back to the post, over thirty miles from our ranch, and
was gone five days. He was going to bring in more ammunition, but when
he came back he was drunk and had no ammunition, so I left him there and
went after it.

“And I met this girl. Her name was Janice Gray. Pretty name, eh? And she
was pretty. I found that Buck had proposed to her and she had turned him
down. Two days later we were married and went back to the ranch.”

Park Reber smiled bitterly and looked at the ceiling.

“I don’t know why she married me, June. I can see the look on Buck’s
face yet when we rode in and told him. And I had forgotten the
ammunition. He didn’t say much. Didn’t wish us happiness--just sat there
and looked at the ground. Finally he said--

“‘Park, I’ll pay you for this some day.’”

“I didn’t know what he meant at the time. He saddled his horse and rode
away. Later on he built a cabin at the forks of the river and sent two
men for half of the stock. I helped them round up all the cattle and
horses, and we divided them equally.

“But he never came near me. I heard that he said he would pay me back
for what I had done, but I did not pay any attention to what I heard. We
were happy, Janice and I. The spring came and turned into summer. There
were few settlers. The Cheyennes were gettin’ worse, but every one said
that when the winter came they’d be driven out by the deep snows and
lack of game. The deer all move over to Clear Valley in the winter,
because of the laurel, which does not grow here.

“The winter came early that season. I had cut a lot of wild hay on the
bottoms, but not enough to feed stock all winter. In October there was
three feet of snow, and it did not go off. By Christmas my hay was all
gone, and I was in a desperate condition.

“I knew that the north end of the valley was open, and there was only
one thing to try and do--to take my herd out of my range. I had one man
working for me. He was a young man by the name of Sneed--John Sneed--a
good boy. I couldn’t leave Janice alone, yuh see. There would be a baby
along soon, and some one had to stay with her. There was a doctor at the
trading post. I tell yuh, I was desperate, so I broke trail with horses
and led my cattle to the upper end of the valley. It was a tough pull. I
took them past Buck’s place, but didn’t see him. He had moved his cattle
out a few days before, and the trail was open from there.

“I had to bring those half-starved cattle almost up to here, where I
threw them in with Buck’s cattle, and came on to the post. It was bitter
cold that night I rode in, but it warmed up a little, and by morning the
worst blizzard that ever swept this country came down through here.

“This whole valley was a howling hell of wind and snow, June. I don’t
suppose our cattle lasted one night. You couldn’t see a man at your
elbow. A man couldn’t live in it. Twenty below and a fifty-mile gale. I
swore I’d go home, but they stopped me. It lasted five days.

“And when the wind died down the temperature died with it, until the
thermometer at the post froze. Then we started for my place, the doctor
and me, traveling on snowshoes. The valley was a place of the dead.
There was not even a rabbit-track. Our cattle were under the drifts.

“There was some one at Buck’s cabin. We could see a thread of smoke from
his chimney; the rest of the cabin was buried in the snow. But there was
no smoke from my chimney.”

Park Reber shut his eyes, and for a while June thought he had fallen
asleep. Then:

“No, there was no smoke, June; the cabin was empty. We dug our way down
to the door and went in. There was John Sneed, lying face down in the
middle of the room--dead. His head had been cut open--his scalp taken.
The Cheyennes had been there. The doctor said he had been dead quite a
while. I think they had been there ahead of the blizzard.

“I don’t remember just what I did, June. They told me that I went
hunting for the Cheyenne camp; I don’t remember. Later I went back to
the post and spent the winter. In the spring I went to the Cheyennes and
tried to find some trace of my wife, but it was useless. They treated me
like a crazy man--and I reckon I was. Later on I went further north and
opened a saloon in a new mining camp. It was a money-maker, and in two
years I came back here and went into cattle again.

“Buck was still here; still hatin’ me. We met one day and he taunted me
with my loss. I tried to kill him with my hands and almost succeeded. It
didn’t help any. Buck Priest ain’t the kind you can whip into
friendship.

“And I think he hates me for being successful. I own practically all of
the Valley. They call it Reber’s Valley. That must hurt Buck Priest. I
tried to buy him out, but he wouldn’t sell. He shot my cattle when they
came on his range, and I--I shot his cattle on my range.

“Oh, it’s been a battle for years. Finally I gave my men orders to let
him and his cattle alone. It seemed to be a mutual truce. But my cattle
have disappeared. I don’t think Buck Priest took them.”

“Who is Jack Silver?” asked June.

Reber looked curiously at her.

“Jack Silver?”

“Yes, I heard his name spoken, Mr. Reber.”

“Jack Silver,” mused Reber. “A handsome devil of a breed, June. He’s
tall, graceful--too smart for my men. He comes to Tomahawk. He’s not
afraid of me. Half Cheyenne. There are no Cheyennes in the Valley now,
June. Uncle Sam keeps ’em on a reservation. But Jack Silver lives back
on Trapper Creek, twenty miles southwest of here. We’ve tried to catch
him stealing my cattle, but he eludes us.

“McLeese of the Two Bar X and Nort Jackson of the Lightnin’ have trailed
him for weeks; and Slim Patterson has tried to trap him, but he’s too
clever. He’s got the cunning of the Cheyenne, the brain of a white man.”

June sat in an old rocker, her chin resting on the palm of her right
hand, as she thought over Reber’s story. It was the first time she had
ever heard the reasons for Buck Priest’s hatred of Park Reber.

“How many head of cattle has Jack Silver stolen from you?” she asked.

Reber shook his head slowly.

“Who knows, June? More than I care to lose.”

He smiled at the thoughtful expression on her face.

“What would you do if you was in my place, June?”

“I was just thinking,” said June, “that if I were in your place I’d hire
Jack Silver to work for me.”

Reber frowned quickly. “Hire him to--”

“Why not? You’d save money--and he would be worth what you paid him,
wouldn’t he?”

“I never thought of that, June.”

They were interrupted by Hop Lee, who came in and told Reber that Slim
Patterson of the Half-Wheel was waiting to see him. June left the room
when Patterson came in.

“How’re yuh comin’?” asked Slim, sitting down in the chair June had
vacated.

“All right,” said Reber. “Be out in a day or so.”

“Good! Say, I was back between Trapper Creek and the West Fork yesterday
and I found about a hundred cows bunched in a draw back there. It shore
looked as though somebody was all set for a drive. Me and ‘Chuck’ Avery
laid there until night waitin’ for somebody to show up, but they didn’t.

“I left Chuck there and went home. Sent ‘Biddy’ Conley and Abe Lehman
out to keep him company and pulled out for here this mornin’, after
Biddy came in and said they hadn’t seen anybody yet.”

Reber sighed wearily.

“I dunno, Slim,” he said slowly. “I talked with McLeese the other day
and he suggested that we post men in that Trapper Creek pass. It might
be a good scheme. They can’t get past the Two Bar X into West Fork pass
without bein’ seen by some of the boys, and those are the only two ways
out, except past here.

“I’ll tell yuh what I want yuh to do, Slim. Send about three of yore men
to Trapper Creek pass, and then pack a message to Jackson, McLeese,
Franks and Carlin to be here at my place tomorrow night, and you come
with ’em. I’ve got a scheme to stop Jack Silver.”

“You have? That’s fine.”

Slim got to his feet and picked up his hat.

“I’ll pass the word to the boys for tomorrow night. Heard anythin’ more
of Buck Priest?”

“Not a word, Slim. Have you?”

“Only that he says yo’re stealin’ his cows. I think he’s tryin’ to
excuse himself for shootin’ yuh.”

Reber smiled slowly, and Slim went out.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The S Bar P ranchhouse and other buildings were of log construction,
rambling old structures one story in height. The ranchhouse and
bunk-house had the old mud-and-stone fire-places. Back of the stables
was Porcupine Creek, which ran northwest to Tomahawk River. It was about
six miles from the ranch to Tomahawk town.

It was the day after Reber had sent the message to his foremen when Jack
Silver rode in at the S Bar P ranch. He rode a tall black gelding, a
fitting mount for a man of his physique.

Silver was tall, lithe, dark-skinned. He wore his hair long, but his
face was smooth-shaven. His shirt was black, as were his muffler and
sombrero, and he wore no chaps. His high-heeled boots were of the
short-topped Southwest style, and around his waist was a hand-made
cartridge belt supporting a Colt gun in a hand-made holster.

He swung off his horse, waving a greeting to three of Buck Priest’s men
who were down near the corrals. Priest met him at the door of the
ranchhouse and they shook hands warmly.

“How are yuh, Jack?” asked Priest, as they sat down in the main room of
the ranchhouse.

“I’m fine,” replied Silver. “Been over in Clear Valley for a week and
just got back. Ran into Dave McLeese yesterday and he told me about you
and Reber havin’ a fight.”

Priest scowled heavily and slapped the palm of his right hand on his
knee.

“I tried to kill him, Jack. A girl ruined the shot.”

Silver smiled, showing a flash of white, even teeth.

“A girl, eh? McLeese didn’t tell me about her.”

“A fiddler in the Tomahawk,” said Priest. “Flung her fiddle and hit me
in the hand. Oh, I was goin’ to kill him, Jack. Reber and his gang of
cutthroats are runnin’ all the S Bar P cattle out of the valley.”

“I thought there was sort of a truce.”

“Truce!” Priest laughed shortly. “Reber sent me word that he’d quit if I
would. I quit, Jack. But he didn’t. The only way I can ever make Park
Reber quit is to kill him. Next time there won’t be any fiddle-throwin’
female present.”

Jack Silver laughed softly.

“You know what they think of me, Buck. I’m watched every minute by
Reber’s men. Why, I can’t even kill a piece of fresh meat any more.
They’re layin’ for a chance to kill me. Some day they’ll put up a job on
me--and I’ll swing for it.

“Oh, they’re nice to my face--McLeese, Jim Carlin, Nort Jackson--all
nice to my face. Behind my back they call me the dirty half-breed--the
Injun rustler. I trap for a livin’, Buck. You know that. Reber hates me
because I’m half Cheyenne.”

Buck Priest smiled crookedly, nodding slowly.

“There’s plenty of hate in this valley, Jack. I hope some day to see
Park Reber suffer.”

“He ought to be half Injun,” said Silver bitterly. “That’s enough
sufferin’ for one man. Last night he sent word to me by one of the
Half-Wheel punchers to be at his place tonight.”

“He sent word to you?”

“Yeah.”

“Wants to trap yuh, eh?”

Silver shrugged his shoulders.

“I played safe, Buck. Today I came across the hills and I’ll stay here
until dark. I don’t know what Reber wants.”

“He’s still crippled, and that girl is nursin’ him. She’s makin’ a play
for Reber.”

“Pretty girl, Buck?”

Priest nodded.

“Yeah, pretty as a picture. But what do yuh suppose Reber wants of you?”

“I dunno.”

“Are you goin’ to take a chance on him, Jack?”

“I’ll see what he wants.”

“It might be a scheme to harm yuh, Jack.”

“Might be. But as far as that’s concerned, if they want to kill me they
can pick me off most any time.”

“That’s true,” agreed Priest. “We’ll all ride in after supper, Jack. If
things go wrong, we’ll do what we can.”

“And if Reber finds you in town he’ll set his dogs on yuh,” said Silver
grimly.

“I’ll have my dogs along,” replied Buck meaningly. “We went into the
Tomahawk and came out safe enough. But I was drunk, Jack. It wasn’t a
job for a sober man. We sure shocked that gang a-plenty.”

“I wish I had been there,” smiled Jack. “I’ve never been in the
Tomahawk.”

“It’s not a safe place, Jack; and maybe you’ll find it out tonight.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

None of Reber’s foremen knew why he had sent for them. Some of them were
obliged to ride the length of the valley, but they were all
there--Patterson, Jackson, McLeese, Carlin and Franks. McLeese was
drunk; not blind drunk by any manner of means, but inclined to be
quarrelsome.

Park Reber was out of bed, and met them in the big living-room, a huge
place forty feet long and twenty-five feet wide. Around two sides of
this huge room was a wide veranda. At one end was a doorway leading out
on to the veranda; and there was another doorway about fifteen feet from
the corner, on the side. About midway of the room was a big window, and
there were two windows at the front end.

Across this front end of the room was a long table and a number of
chairs. On the opposite side of the room from the side entrance was a
huge fireplace, capable of taking ten-foot logs. Most of the furnishings
were of the home-made variety, and the floors were strewn with
bright-colored Navajo rugs and the skins of wolf and grizzly. The walls
were darkened with smoke and age.

The five foremen came in together. Reber seated them around the big
table, he himself sitting at the head of the table, still a trifle pale,
unable to use his left arm. At his right sat June Meline. She received
several undisguised scowls. Beside her sat Franks of the M 33. At the
opposite end of the table sat McLeese, scowling at everybody, and June
in particular. He did not like the idea of having a woman at their
conference. On the other side of the table sat Patterson, Jackson and
Carlin.

Reber’s glance swept around the table and came to rest on McLeese.

“You’re drunk,” he said shortly. “Why?”

McLeese grimaced and tried to laugh it off, but Reber’s eyes bored into
him and he coughed a little.

“I wanted sober men at this meetin’,” said Reber.

“I’m sober enough to know what I’m doin’,” said McLeese.

“Not if you had three drinks--and you’ve had more.”

Reber did not wait for McLeese to reply, but turned to the others.

“I brought you boys here tonight to see if we can’t figure out some way
to stop this rustlin’,” he said slowly. “We’re losin’ too many cattle to
suit me. What’s to be done?”

Patterson shook his head.

“I dunno, Park,” he said slowly. “It beats me.”

“How about you, Jackson?”

“Same as Slim.”

“Same here,” growled Carlin.

“They ain’t hit my place,” said Franks of the M 33. “Mebbe I’m too far
north.”

“That may be,” nodded Reber. “But it’s got to stop.”

“Go out and stop old Buck Priest,” said McLeese.

Reber studied McLeese’s flushed face.

“You think they’re runnin’ ’em out this end of the valley, Mac?”

“Priest hates yuh, don’t he? They’re not goin’ over the West Fork pass,
and the boys have been watchin’ the Trapper Creek pass. Jack Silver is
friendly to Buck Priest. By ----, I’d wipe out that whole ---- gang.”

“There’s a lady present,” said Reber coldly.

“I forgot,” said McLeese. “Anyway, I don’t think this is any place for a
woman.”

“I asked her to be here,” said Reber. “When I want yore opinion on that
I’ll ask for it, McLeese!”

“I’m jist wonderin’ if McLeese’s idea ain’t worth quite a lot, at that,”
said Jackson. “I don’t mean about the lady, but about Priest and Silver.
We’ve tried to trap Silver a lot of times, but he’s too much Injun to be
trapped.”

“He’s smart,” said McLeese.

“Too smart for you, eh?” asked Reber.

“Oh, I dunno,” flared McLeese.

“You haven’t landed him, and that’s the answer,” said Reber. “He’s too
smart. He thinks twice while you’re thinkin’ once. And you object to
this lady being here. She’s got more sense in a minute than you’ll ever
show, McLeese.”

Both June and McLeese flushed, but for different reasons.

The rest of the men eyed June closely. Perhaps they thought Reber was
getting old and that this pretty girl was in a position to get a hand
into the Reber fortune. It was an embarrassing position for the girl.
McLeese laughed, and they saw Reber’s lips tighten. Carlin kicked at
McLeese’s ankle beneath the table, but only succeeded in kicking a leg
of the table.

“We’re not gettin’ anywhere,” said Reber coldly.

“No, and we’ll not get anywhere as long as you’ll let Jack Silver and
Buck Priest do as they please,” growled Carlin. “Let’s clean ’em out, I
say.”

“On what evidence, Carlin?”

“General principles. Buck tried to kill you. He’ll try it again. Silver
is a half-breed thief. Just pass the word and we’ll rid the valley of
the whole brood.”

“Meanin’,” said Reber slowly, “that Silver is too smart for you to catch
red-handed, eh?”

“If yuh want to put it that way--yes.”

“You think he bunches up cattle and takes ’em through the Trapper Creek
pass and sells ’em in Clear Valley?”

“Cinch. We can’t get any evidence in Clear Valley. We’ve tried it often
enough.”

“That gang over there will take stolen cattle, that’s a cinch,” said
Jackson. “You’d never get any evidence if yuh went there in a gang--and
one or two men would soon be wiped out. They’re pretty clannish.”

Reber nodded slowly. He knew Jackson was right. Suddenly there came the
slither of a moving body, and they turned toward the big window about
ten feet beyond them. Just inside the window stood Jack Silver, his left
shoulder resting against the wall, his two thumbs hooked over his belt.

For several moments no one spoke. Silver laughed, and his teeth flashed
white in the light from the hanging lamp in the center of the room. He
seemed to be resting lazily against that shoulder, but every man at that
table knew he could draw and shoot quicker than any of them.

“Gentlemen, Mr. Silver himself,” said Reber slowly.

The men glanced at Reber curiously, but turned back to Silver.

“You sent for me,” said Jack.

Reber nodded.

“Yeah, I sent for yuh, Silver. Slim, will you get a chair for Mr.
Silver?”

Slim Patterson started to get up, but Silver halted him.

“I’ll stand up,” he said slowly, smiling again. “Since when did the
Reber outfits start havin’ squaws at their council?”

June straightened in her chair, her eyes flashing. Silver’s laugh was
almost an insult. Reber did not look at her. McLeese grinned in evident
enjoyment.

“Silver,” said Reber firmly, “you’re deliberately tryin’ to antagonize
us, but I’ll overlook it. I asked you here tonight to make you a
proposition. Will you go to work for me as a foreman on one of my
ranches?”

It was like a bomb-shell exploding in the room. The idea of offering
Jack Silver a position as foreman! The men wondered whether Reber was
losing his mind. Even Silver laughed.

“Make me a foreman?” said Silver. “What’s the idea, Reber?”

“That’s my business, Silver. I’m makin’ you that offer.”

Silver’s eyes swept the faces of the five foremen.

“Which ranch?” he asked smiling.

“Any one you’ll take.”

Silver’s amused glance came back to June.

“Which one is the squaw goin’ to take?”

Reber shook his head sadly.

“You don’t understand what I’m offerin’ you, Silver.”

“Yes, I do, Reber.”

Silver was not smiling now and he had shoved away from the wall.

“You’re tryin’ to buy me off--tryin’ to get me to work for you. You’re
afraid of me, Reber. I dunno why, but yuh are. Your men watch me day and
night. I’m tired of it, but not so tired that I’ll take a job with you.
You hate me because I’m half Cheyenne.

“You ran my people out of Tomahawk Valley, Reber. I know your
story--know why you hate my people. I had a little herd of cattle
started, but you and your men killed ’em off to keep me from being a
cattleman. I’ve no cause to love you. I don’t want your job. Give it to
the squaw.”

He flung his left leg across the windowsill, and before any one could
say anything further, he disappeared. Patterson sprang to his feet, and
the other men were behind him, but Reber stopped them.

“Sit down,” he ordered. “He’s done no wrong.”

“The dirty half-breed!” snarled McLeese.

June Meline was on her feet, her hands on the table, as she leaned
forward, staring at the window where Silver had disappeared. He had
taunted her, called her a squaw! But there was something romantically
wild about this tall, slim, white-toothed young man who defied them. He
had laughed at them and refused to work for Park Reber.

“The trouble is,” Reber was speaking, “yo’re all afraid of Jack Silver.”

June turned quickly to Reber.

“I’m not,” she declared.

Reber smiled at her.

“You’re not, June?”

“Not a bit. I’ll bet I could trap him.”

Several of the men laughed aloud.

“He’d steal you,” declared McLeese, and then laughed at his own
statement.

“You think you could, eh?” said Reber slowly. “I wonder.”

“Ridiculous,” declared Jackson.

Reber leaned on the table looking at June, studying her keenly. Suddenly
he struck the table with his clenched fist.

“I’ll do it!” he exclaimed. “June, beginnin’ tomorrow you’ll be a
ranch-foreman for the Diamond R.”

He looked around at the hard-bitted faces of his men, who were looking
at him, wondering whether he was in his right mind.

“What ranch?” asked McLeese.

Reber shifted his eyes to McLeese.

“The Two Bar X.”

McLeese’s ranch. He shut his jaws tightly and looked at Reber. He knew
it meant that Reber was going to fire him.

“That’s a ---- of a note!” he snorted.

“I run my ranches to suit myself, McLeese.”

Reber reached in his pocket and took out a wallet, from which he counted
out several bills. He handed them to McLeese.

“That’s yore pay up to the first of the month, McLeese.”

“And I’m through right now, eh?”

“Yeah, right now.”

“All right,” McLeese got to his feet unsteadily. “I’ve got some personal
stuff at the ranch and I’ll go get it.”

Reber nodded, and they watched McLeese leave the house. None of the
other men made any comment. For several moments after McLeese was gone
Reber stared silently at the door. Then:

“I think that’s all boys. Goodnight.”

He got to his feet and June walked from the room with him. The men
looked curiously at him, and went out.

“I need a shot of liquor,” said Patterson dryly. “Personally, I think
the old man is losin’ his mind.”

“He’s as crazy as a bedbug!” snapped Carlin. “Offers a job to Jack
Silver, and then gives it to a ---- woman! I’ll take a drink with yuh.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Park Reber wanted to go with June to the Two Bar X ranch the next day,
but the old doctor vetoed such a move on the part of his patient. Reber
was far from well. There was none of his men in from the ranches, so he
sent Jud Nelson and Sam Heard, two of his men who worked in Tomahawk, to
accompany June.

These men did not know why June was going to the ranch, nor did they ask
Reber. They loaded June and her baggage into a light wagon, kicked off
the brake and drove out of town. It was nearly thirty miles to the Two
Bar X, and the roads were none too good. June occupied the back seat,
and with the rattle and lurch of the vehicle there was little
opportunity for conversation. The two men devoted themselves exclusively
to chewing tobacco and keeping the wagon on the road.

At the forks of the river, about twelve miles south of town, they saw
Slim Patterson and two of his cowboys. The road passed close to the
Half-Wheel ranchhouse. Slim waved at them, but they did not stop. They
took the right-hand road, which led to the Two Bar X. There were no
bridges, and the river crossings were almost deep enough to float the
wagon.

About three miles south of the Half-Wheel ranch they passed the mouth of
Trapper Creek, One of the men told her it was Trapper Creek, and she
knew that Jack Silver’s place was somewhere between the West Fork and
the mountains.

June was still in somewhat of a daze over her new job. She didn’t know a
thing about cattle; she knew nothing about running a ranch. But Reber
had told her merely to use her head. He was the real head of all the
ranches, and he would see that she learned the game. Not that Reber
intended keeping her at the Two Bar X. He was not crazy. But he was
willing to grasp at any straw to stop the cattle rustling. If June could
figure out a way to trap Silver it would be worth many dollars to the
Diamond R and he was going to give her a chance.

He knew the temper of his men, knew that the majority of them were
against the idea of hiring a woman. But he did feel that any of them
would support any scheme she might formulate to stop the wholesale
stealing of his cattle.

They had just passed the mouth of Trapper Creek and were traveling
through a willow patch in the river bottom, near a ford, when the driver
suddenly jerked up his team, almost throwing June off the seat. She had
a confused impression of the team’s twisting sidewise, of a man yelling
a warning, of the sound of a shot.

She flung out her right hand, grasping the back of the front seat to
steady herself. Sam Herd was sprawling forward, as if looking down over
the left front wheel, and he suddenly slid ahead limply and slithered
over the wheel to the ground.

Jud Nelson’s two hands were in the air. Two masked men had turned their
horses in close to the wagon. They were wearing empty flour sacks over
their heads, with holes cut in them for eyes. One of them looked down at
Herd.

“That’s one less for Reber,” he growled behind his mask.

The one man kept a rifle trained on Nelson, while the other dismounted,
climbed up and removed Nelson’s revolver.

June’s face was pale, but she kept her nerve when this masked man turned
to her.

“Git out of the wagon,” he ordered gruffly.

There was nothing else for her to do. These men had killed one man
already. She climbed down and he indicated his horse.

“Climb on.”

She looked at Nelson, who was looking straight ahead, his lips
compressed tightly, both hands held rigidly above his head. June could
ride. She climbed into the saddle, hampered by her skirts, and the other
bandit laughed.

“Good lookin’ squaw,” he observed.

The other man turned and walked around the wagon to where Herd’s body
lay. He picked him up, carried him to the rear of the wagon and dumped
him unceremoniously over the tailgate into the wagon-box. He came back
and motioned to Nelson.

“Turn around and drive back,” he said hoarsely. “Take all the time yuh
need. A little hurry might ruin yore health.”

“And yuh might tell old Reber that he ain’t runnin’ this valley yet a
while,” added the other. “The road from here to Tomahawk won’t be
healthy for him and his men, so they don’t need to blame us if they git
what this feller got.”

Nelson nodded. He was more than willing to get away with a whole skin.
He managed to turn the team around in the willows, and started back,
holding the team to a slow walk.

The man mounted behind June, but before they started out he blindfolded
her with a none too clean handkerchief.

Then they rode out of the river bottom, forded the river and headed into
the hills. June knew this, because the horse was climbing most of the
way. There was no conversation. The bandit guided the horse, with an arm
on each side of June. He had been drinking, but not enough to give him
more than a whisky breath.

It seemed to June that they had been riding about an hour, when the
horses fairly slid downward for considerable distance, traveled along
for a while on level ground and stopped. The men dismounted and lifted
June off the saddle, guiding her into a cabin, where they removed the
blindfold.

It was a small log cabin, crudely furnished, with a dirt floor. It
smelled musty in there. June blinked painfully as she looked around at
the two men. One of them secured a length of lariat-rope with which he
roped her tightly to a chair. He knew how to knot ropes, and when he was
finished there was no possible way for June to escape. The other man
inspected the knots and nodded his approval.

“That’s the old Injun knot,” he growled. “No squaw ever wiggled loose
from one like that.”

The other laughed.

“You’ll stay here quite a while,” he told June. “No use to yelp. There
ain’t a man within miles of here. When Jack Silver does a job, he does
it well. Park Reber can hunt and be ---- to him, but he’ll never find
yuh. We’re goin’ away, but we’ll be back tonight some time and bring
some feed for yuh.”

They turned abruptly and left the cabin, closing the door behind them.
June heard the creak of their saddles and the sound of the horses
walking away. She tried to loosen her bonds, but she soon found that
there was nothing to do but to sit and wait.

She wanted to cry, to scream for help. But she knew that it would not
help matters in the least. She was going to need all her nerve. She
wondered what Park Reber would do. What could he do, she wondered? It
might take them weeks to find her. Jack Silver had outwitted him again.

She wondered whether one of these men was Silver. Neither looked like
the man who had taunted her. They were not so tall and slim as Silver.

It was, possibly, thirty minutes after the departure of the two men when
she heard the soft _plop-plop_ of a horse’s hoofs. She listened
intently. The horse had stopped near the cabin door, and she heard a
footstep.

Suddenly the door was flung open and a man stood in the opening--a tall,
slender man. She was looking against the light and could not see his
features, but she knew it was Jack Silver.

He came slowly in and stood looking down at her.

“Reber’s squaw, eh?” he said softly.

June shut her lips tightly, refusing to reply. He walked back to the
door and looked around. Beyond him she could see his tall black horse
looking toward him. Finally he came back to her and began taking off the
ropes.

It did not take him long to unfasten her hands, and then he dropped to
his knees beside her, fumbling with the knots beneath the chair. It was
her big chance, and she had the nerve to take advantage of it.

Leaning slightly toward him she reached down and quickly whipped the
six-shooter from his holster and shoved the muzzle against his neck.
June knew guns. The hammer came to full cock from a twist of her thumb.

Jack Silver did not look up, but his hands came away from the rope. He
did not move, but waited for her to act.

“Unfasten that rope,” she ordered, and was surprized to find her voice
fairly steady.

Silver unfastened the remaining rope, and she got to her feet, backing
away from him.

“Now I’ve got you,” she said hoarsely.

“Looks thataway,” he said slowly. “I hope yuh know that trigger only
pulls about a pound.”

“I am not interested in trigger pulls, Mr. Silver.”

“Possibly not. I am.”

June picked up the loose rope with her left hand, keeping an eye on
Silver, and then motioned for him to precede her out of the cabin. He
made no objection, but his eyes were just a little curious.

June tossed him the looped end of the rope.

“Put it around your neck,” she ordered.

He shut his lips tightly and studied her intently. She had the gun at
her hip now, and the hammer was still cocked. He shrugged his shoulders
and smiled thinly.

“Single-handed lynchin’?” he asked.

June shook her head firmly.

“I’m not your judge, Jack Silver. But you’re going to guide me to the
Two Bar X ranch, you know. You’ll walk ahead with the rope around your
neck and I’ll ride your horse.”

Jack Silver laughed softly as he put the loop around his neck.

“So that’s your game, eh?” he said amusedly. “You’ve got a lot of nerve
for a woman. I never knew that pretty women had nerve. That’s how yuh
won old man Reber, eh? Pretty girl with plenty nerve. Oh, he’s worth
winnin’. He’s got nobody to leave his money to--no relatives. And he’s
got plenty money. I heard he had made you a foreman.”

Silver threw back his head and laughed.

June had a notion to yank the loop tight and choke off that laugh.

“You’ll laugh different when I get you to the Two Bar X,” she promised
him.

He sobered suddenly.

“That’s right,” he said quickly. “They don’t like me. But what I’d like
to know is what you were doing in this cabin all tied up like that?”

“How did you know I was in that cabin?” she retorted.

“I didn’t. I saw two men riding away from here, so I came to
investigate. Where most men are my enemies, I kinda look at things, yuh
know.”

“You lie!”

Silver’s eyes narrowed with sudden anger.

“You know you lie,” said June hotly. “You and your men knew I was going
to the Two Bar X today. You had them stop us, and they killed a man--Sam
Herd. You had them bring me to this place. That’s how you knew I was
here. Now I’m going to take you to the Two Bar X and turn you over to
the men. You’re responsible for the death of Sam Herd, and if Park
Reber’s men don’t hang you the law will!”

Silver turned his head away and stared off across the hills.

“Your men won’t be back for quite a while so you don’t need to look for
them,” said June. “How far is it to the Two Bar X?”

“About three miles,” said Silver slowly. “You better let the hammer down
on that gun before yuh mount. Don’t be afraid of that horse--he’s gentle
enough. Compadre! Stand still and let the squaw get on.”

June managed to get into the saddle without tangling up the rope. She
did not dare take her eyes off Silver, and she did not uncock the
revolver. June was taking no chances.

“Now you take me straight to the Two Bar X ranch,” she ordered, “and
don’t try any tricks.”

“You are a very, very smart young lady,” he said seriously. “And I am
not going to try and trick yuh.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

About the time that June and Jack Silver were leaving for the Two Bar X
ranch, a rider came through the gate of the S Bar P; a rider who swayed
down along the fork of his saddle, a limp arm hanging on each side of
the horse’s neck.

The rider was Harry O’Steen, one of Buck Priest’s men--a red-headed,
freckled cowboy; a laughing, rollicking sort of person, whose
disposition did much to keep up the morale of the S Bar P.

Buck Priest was sitting on the ranchhouse porch talking with “Rowdy”
Dow, another of his cowboys, when the horse came in. They could see at a
glance that O’Steen had been hurt, and both of them ran down to him.
They eased him to the ground and then carried him to the shade of the
porch.

“Been shot twice,” declared Rowdy. “Gawd A’mighty, he’s all shot to
strings!”

Buck Priest nodded shortly and knelt beside O’Steen, who was trying to
talk. Rowdy ran through the house and came back with a dipper of water,
which he held to O’Steen’s lips. Ken Mader and Dick Leeson, the two
other cowboys, came from the bunk-house and joined them.

“Can yuh talk, Harry?” asked Buck anxiously. “Who shot yuh?”

O’Steen struggled painfully, trying to say something. It came in a jerky
sentence--

“Rustlers--got--me--Porcupine--Creek--”

That was all. He closed his eyes, twitched slightly. Buck got to his
feet, his old face twisted.

“Uh-huh,” he said softly. “Rustlers got him on Porcupine Creek, boys.
Help me carry him in the house. That’s more of Park Reber’s work.”

They placed the body of O’Steen on a cot and covered it up with a
bright-colored blanket.

“Saddle up,” ordered Priest. “Take yore rifles along. We’re goin’ to
Tomahawk and talk to Park Reber with the only language he understands.
He’s goin’ to pay for killin’ O’Steen.”

“That’s the talk,” said Rowdy. “We’ll wipe his town off the map.”

“Four men may not be able to do that, Rowdy,” said Buck Priest wearily,
“but we’ll do what we can.”

Ten minutes later the four men galloped from the S Bar P, heading for
Tomahawk town. The sun was almost down, and they wanted to get there
before dark. About two miles from the ranch the road intersected with
the main road, and as the four riders swept around the point of a hill
they saw a team and light wagon coming from the south.

They were close enough to see that the driver was Nelson, one of Reber’s
men. They drew rein and waited for the wagon to reach them. Priest swung
his horse across the road ahead of the team, forcing them to stop.

“Hyah, Nelson,” said Priest coldly.

“Howdy, gentlemen,” nodded Nelson. “I’m sure glad to see somebody. I
stopped at the Half-Wheel, but there wasn’t nobody at home. Me and Sam
Herd was takin’ that girl to the Two Bar X and we got held up. Sam tried
to draw a gun, and they killed him. And they put the girl on a horse and
took her away. Sam’s in the back of the wagon.”

Rowdy spurred his horse around the wagon and looked in.

“He’s here all right, Buck,” he said.

“Where’d this all happen?”

“Near the mouth of Trapper. Down in them willers, jist before yuh reach
the ford. Two men, Priest. They had sacks over their heads.”

Priest backed his horse off the road and motioned for Nelson to drive
on.

“Ain’t we goin’?” asked Rowdy.

Buck Priest watched the wagon disappear up the road.

“I don’t know what to make of it,” he said. “Sam Herd was one of Park
Reber’s trusted men. And they stole that girl, eh? That’s funny. We’re
goin’ back home, boys. No use goin’ off half-cocked, I reckon. We’ll
pack up some grub and blankets and swing in on the Porcupine. It must
have been kinda late when O’Steen was shot, and the rustlers can’t move
cattle much after dark.”

They turned and rode back to the ranch.

                   *       *       *       *       *

In the meantime Nelson lost no time in driving his jaded horses to
Tomahawk town. It was dark when he arrived, and he went straight to
Reber’s house, where he found Reber with the old doctor. Nelson blurted
out his story as quickly as possible. He helped the doctor carry Herd’s
body into the house, and the doctor found that Herd had been killed
almost instantly.

Reber, still weak from his wound, sat down in a chair and swore
impotently.

“Just for that I’ll wipe Buck Priest and Jack Silver off the map,” he
declared bitterly. “You say you met Priest and his men? They circled
back to see if you got help at the Half-Wheel. Oh, I know Buck Priest!”

“Only one of ’em looked in at the body,” said Nelson.

“They knew it was there. Oh, I’ll make Priest pay. It was either Priest
or Silver--perhaps both. They work together. Nelson, go to the Tomahawk
and see if any of my men are in from the ranches. Bring them here to me.
Wait! Send them here. You get a horse and ride for the Half-Wheel. Don’t
spare the horse. Tell Slim Patterson what happened. Then you go to the
Circle S and tell Jim Carlin to bring his outfit to the Half-Wheel and
to send a man to the Lightnin’ for Jackson and his crew. We’ll all meet
at the Half-Wheel.”

Nelson ran from the house, and the old doctor turned to Reber.

“You’ll not ride tonight,” he said firmly.

“You try to stop me, Doc.”

“Hm-m-m-m! You’re a fool, Park. That wound isn’t healed up. You’ll wreck
your health, I tell you.”

“Bah! Wreck my health! I’m goin’ out to find that girl and to whip all
this scum out of the valley. I’ve stood all I’ll ever stand from Priest
and Silver.”

“It was a foolish thing, that sending of a woman,” said the old doctor.
He had known Park Reber for years, and felt privileged to speak his
mind.

“Mebbe,” said Reber shortly. “Mebbe not. She’s smart, Doc. I wish she
was my daughter. If things had turned out different I might have had a
girl or a boy of about her age.”

“Yes, that’s true.”

“And she spoiled Buck Priest’s shot,” said Reber. “He’s got no love for
her. I wonder where these men would take her? Not to any known place,
that’s a cinch. She’s their ace in the hole. I’d like to get my two
hands around Buck Priest’s throat and choke the truth from him. Oh, he
hates me, Doc!

“When he looks at me with his lop-sided grin, I feel that he’s gloating
over somethin’.”

“Be calm,” advised the doctor. “You’ll work yourself into a fever. Did
any doctor ever have such a patient to contend with? That meeting almost
ruined everything; and now you insist on getting excited and riding
helter-skelter over the hills in the dark! I ought to tie you down.”

“Here come some of my men,” said Reber. “Now you keep your tongue out of
it, Doc. I’m goin’, if I have to go on a stretcher.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

It was almost dark when Jack Silver led the way to the Two Bar X. There
were no lights in the ranchhouse. June dismounted and forced Jack to
knock on the door. But there was no answer to his knock. The door was
unlocked. Without any orders from June, Jack lighted the big lamp in the
main room.

“Where is everybody?” wondered June. “Is this the Two Bar X?”

“It’s the Two Bar X all right,” said Jack.

His heels were sore from the long walk in high-heeled boots and he
limped painfully.

June pointed at a door across the room.

“Open that,” she ordered.

Jack limped over and opened it.

It was a windowless inside room, evidently used as a bedroom by some one
who cared little for ventilation. There was a small lamp on the table,
and June ordered Jack to light it. She told him to remove the rope, and
then she backed into the main room, closing the door behind her.

At some time the room must have been used for storage purposes, because
there was a hasp and staple fastener. June quickly locked the door,
after which she sat down in a chair and drew the first calm breath she
had taken since Jack Silver had entered the deserted cabin. There was no
way for him to get out of that room. She took a small lamp and went on a
tour of investigation. The kitchen was fairly clean and there was plenty
of food.

She cooked a meal for herself, but was afraid to take any of it to
Silver. She had him under lock and intended keeping him. She felt sure
that the men of the Two Bar X would be coming back soon. Perhaps, she
thought, they heard of what happened to her and were searching for her.

And what a surprize it would be for them to come back and find her
there, and to find Jack Silver a prisoner. She washed the dishes and
went back to the main room. It was very quiet. A new moon was peeping
over the crest of the Tomahawk range, and she heard the distant howling
of a coyote.

She put Jack Silver’s gun on the table beside her and sat down to look
at some old magazines. Suddenly she heard the muffled tread of horses
walking and thought it was the boys of the ranch coming home. She ran to
a front window and looked out, but could see no one.

For several minutes she stood at the window, but the half-light was
baffling. She went back and sat down, after deciding that it had been
some loose horses. But something made her feel that she was being
watched. Perhaps it was sort of sixth sense.

She found herself unable to read. The two dull, uncurtained windows
seemed to stare at her like a pair of eyes. Why didn’t they curtain
their windows, she wondered? There were noises, too--queer noises.

Suddenly there came the scrape of leather sole on the porch, and the
door was flung open. June jerked forward, her hand on the big gun.

Two men stepped inside, looking queerly at her. It was McLeese, the
deposed foreman, and Chuck Bell, a big, raw-boned, square-faced cowboy
who worked for the Two Bar X. McLeese glanced at the hand and gun on the
table.

“Yuh got here, eh?” he said easily. “That’s fine. I was kinda late
gettin’ here for my stuff. Where’s all the boys?”

“I don’t know,” said June. “I haven’t been here long.”

“Uh-huh,” nodded McLeese. “I suppose they’re late gettin’ in. Well, I’ll
gather up my stuff and head back for town. Did yuh come out alone?”

“Two men brought me,” said June.

She didn’t want to tell McLeese anything, because she didn’t trust him.

“And went back and left yuh alone, eh? Dirty trick. This is a lonesome
place for a girl, Miss Meline. If yuh want us to, we’ll stay until the
boys come back.”

“No, I’m all right,” said June. “I’m not afraid.”

“Uh-huh.”

McLeese went past her and entered the kitchen, where she heard him
working around. Chuck Bell came over near the table and sat down in a
chair. He began rolling a smoke. June was entirely disarmed. She took
her hand away from the gun and picked up a magazine.

As quick as a flash Bell jerked sidewise out of his chair and secured
the gun. He leered at June as he shoved the gun inside the waist-band of
his overalls.

“All set, Mac,” he called. McLeese came from the kitchen, glanced
quickly toward the table and laughed throatily.

“That’s better than knockin’ her on the head,” he said. “By golly, she
had me worried for a minute. I don’t _sabe_ it yet, but that don’t worry
me much. Get a rope, Bell.”

Bell walked back to the front door and went out, while McLeese leaned
against the table and leered at June.

“Smart little lady, eh? Made a awful hit with Old Man Reber, didn’t yuh?
Came out here to catch Jack Silver!”

McLeese laughed scornfully. Bell came in with the rope and gave it to
McLeese, who lost no time in tying June’s hands and feet securely.

“Find me a handkerchief or a rag,” he said. “We’d better gag her. Yuh
never can tell who might come along. The road is guarded and all that,
but we’ll jist play safe.”

Bell produced a dirty bandanna handkerchief.

“Why don’tcha find out how much she knows, Mac?” he asked.

“Whatsa use? Anyway, we’ve got to get goin’, Chuck. Old Man Reber won’t
stop to ask many questions.”

McLeese twisted the handkerchief, forced June’s teeth apart and tied the
gag. As he was finishing the job, Bell examined the gun he had taken
from her. Suddenly he cried out:

“This is Jack Silver’s gun!”

“What’re yuh talkin’ about?” asked McLeese.

“I tell yuh it is, Mac! There’s the S carved on the bottom of the
handle. I’ve seen it lots of times. Where do you suppose she got it?”

McLeese looked at June, who was none too comfortable with the gag
between her teeth.

“Take that rag out and let her talk,” suggested Bell, but McLeese shook
his head.

“She’d lie about it, anyway.”

He indicated the closed door, where June had locked Silver.

“We’ll put her in there, Chuck. Grab her feet.”

McLeese grasping her by the shoulders and Chuck Bell taking her feet,
they carried her over to the door.

McLeese did not seem to think it strange that the hasp was fastened in
place. He held June with one arm while he unfastened it. He grasped her
again with both hands and kicked the door open.

And as the door flew open, something in the nature of a cyclone seemed
to strike them. Jack Silver sprang from inside the room, striking Chuck
Bell with his shoulder.

June’s feet struck the floor heavily, and McLeese jerked away, letting
her fall to the floor as Chuck Bell went spinning across the room. Jack
went to his hands and knees, but was up like a flash and into the
startled McLeese before he could draw a gun.

He swung a right hand at McLeese’s jaw, but the blow was too high. It
caught McLeese on the bridge of the nose and knocked him to his haunches
against the wall. Silver turned quickly to meet the rush of Chuck Bell,
and they grappled. It was evident that Bell was so dizzy from his
spinning that he forgot to draw a gun; but not so McLeese. He sagged
back, his broken nose painting his face with gore, and whipped out his
gun and fired upward at Silver.

The report of the gun was echoed by a crash of glass, and the room was
plunged in darkness. McLeese’s bullet had smashed the lamp, missing Jack
Silver’s ear by a fraction of an inch.

Silver whirled Bell around, broke his hold and flung him toward McLeese.
It was evident that Bell went down on top of McLeese, and Silver feared
for the safety of June, who was only a few feet from McLeese.

He stepped in and tried to drag her out of the mélée, but at that moment
one of the men crashed into him, knocking him off his feet. He went
rolling against the table, and a man fell over him. Silver struggled to
his feet and met the rush of one of them.

In that darkness it was impossible for him to see which one it was. They
crashed to the floor, fighting like a pair of animals, but Jack managed
to tear himself away and slid along the floor.

The front door opened, and for a moment he could see the silhouette of a
man, etched blackly against the moonlight.

Came the crashing report of a revolver in the room, and the silhouette
sagged down heavily.

The flash of the gun had blinded Silver, and the powder smoke choked
him. One of these men had shot the other, thinking it was Jack Silver.
He heard this man crawling across the floor, but did not try to stop
him. Then he heard him run through the kitchen, slam the door shut and
go running across the yard.

Silver ran to the front door. The man who had left the house mounted his
horse and spurred toward the gate. Silver turned the man over in the
doorway, and the white face and staring eyes of McLeese looked up at
him. He found McLeese’s gun where he had dropped it on the porch, and
went back in the house. He secured the lamp in the kitchen, lighted it
and went into the main room.

June was still lying where they had dropped her. Silver closed the front
door and came back to her. It was a simple task for him to take the gag
and ropes off her and help her to a chair, where she sagged wearily. The
gag had cut her lips, and there was blood on her wrists, cut by the
ropes.

Silver said nothing. His face was bruised and one sleeve of his shirt
was almost torn off. June stared at him, panting nervously, as he calmly
rolled a cigaret with steady fingers.

“Why don’t you say something?” she asked, almost hysterically.

He looked at her, a half-smile on his lips.

“I dunno,” he said simply. “Don’t seem to be much to say.”

“Well, what is it all about? Oh, why don’t you get excited? You sit
there and roll a cigaret just as though nothing had happened. Who--which
one did you shoot?”

“I didn’t shoot,” he said slowly. “Bell shot McLeese. Mebbe he thought
it was me. He didn’t have any cause to shoot Mac, that I know about. The
door over there was too thick for me to hear much that was said, and I’m
wonderin’ why they had you tied up.”

June shook her head. She didn’t know.

“Didn’t they tell yuh why?”

“Oh, I don’t know what they talked about. Everything is so mixed up.”

“Yeah, that’s right.”

He lighted his cigaret and inhaled deeply.

“It seems to me,” he said smiling quietly, “that you’ve kinda had a hard
time gettin’ started on yore new job.”

“Why did you have me kidnaped?” she asked.

“Me? Lord love yuh, I never did.”

“I’d like to believe you, but--”

“Why should I?”

“Well, I--I--you hate Park Reber.”

“Yo’re not Park Reber.”

“I--I work for him.”

“Lotsa folks work for him, ma’am, and I never kidnaped any of them.”

June bit her lip and studied Jack Silver, who looked at her frankly. He
did not look like a man who would kidnap a woman. There was nothing of
the sneak about him.

“What do you do for a living?” she asked bluntly.

“Trappin’, mostly. I had a small herd of cattle a few years ago, but
Park Reber’s men killed ’em off. He didn’t want me to get a start. In
the winter I trap from here over into the Clear Valley side of the
range. I make a good livin’.”

“What do you do with the cattle you steal from Park Reber?”

It was a very blunt question. Jack Silver’s eyes did not shift, but
narrowed slightly, and for several moments he did not speak. Then--

“I’ve never stolen a cow from Park Reber.”

“That doesn’t check up with what I’ve heard, Mr. Silver.”

“Probably not, ma’am, but it doesn’t matter. I’ve eaten Diamond R beef.
He killed off my cattle, didn’t he? When I needed a piece of beef real
bad, I took it. Reber hates me. He says he hates me because I steal his
cattle, but he’s a liar.”

“Is it because he wants all the valley?”

“No, it’s because I’ve got Cheyenne blood in me. You’ve heard his
story?”

“About the Indians killing his wife?”

“Stealin’ her, ma’am. Nobody knows how she died--if she did die.”

“I’m sorry,” said June simply.

“About my blood?” Silver smiled bitterly. “I can’t help it.”

He got to his feet and walked to a window and he looked out. Finally he
came back and sat down.

“I don’t see where your blood would make any difference,” said June.

“Don’t yuh? Yo’re a white woman; would you marry a half-breed?”

“Why, I--I never thought of that.”

“You wouldn’t. Perhaps there are white women who would, but they’d not
be the kind I’d want. I don’t want to marry an Injun girl--so there yuh
are. I’m only half good enough to marry a white woman, and I’ve got too
much white blood to marry an Indian. Everybody hates a breed. Oh, yes
they do. Even the Injuns hate a breed.

“Do yuh know what they say about a half-breed? They say he inherits the
vices of both sides and the virtues of neither. Mebbe that’s right.”

“What about Buck Priest--did Reber steal his cattle?”

“I think so, ma’am. But this ain’t lettin’ us in on the secret of
things. Why do yuh suppose McLeese and Bell tied you up. Who kidnapped
yuh, and what was their object? I’m gettin’ kinda anxious. Bell rode
away, and he might come back in force. I’d hate to have yuh penned in
here with me if Reber’s men try to catch me. I’ve got my own gun and the
one McLeese had. If Reber found me here with you he’d hang
me--especially if he found McLeese dead on the porch.”

“Then you’d better go away,” said June. “I can get along all right, I
guess.”

“I guess yuh can’t. After them fellers tied yuh up and tried to lock yuh
in that room? We’ll find a horse to ride and I’ll take yuh over to my
place. At least you’ll be safe over there.”

June shook her head quickly.

“No, I’ll stay here.”

“Then I’ll stay with yuh.”

“And get hung for being here?”

“Mebbe. I’d sure hate myself all the rest of my life if I left yuh here
alone and anythin’ happened to yuh.”

“Why would you care?”

“I’m half white.”

“And you’d do this, even after I forced you to lead me here with a rope
around your neck.”

“That wasn’t anythin’. You didn’t pull it tight,” he smiled at her and
went to the front door.

“We’ve got to kinda make this place bull-tight,” he said. “Yore name’s
June, ain’t it? I heard it was. I’ll call yuh June. It’s easier to say
than ma’am. My name’s Jack. Prob’ly be mud before mornin’.”

“Mr. Reber will come looking for me,” said June.

“Yea-a-ah, and he’ll find me,” laughed Jack. “But I’ve got a hunch that
Mr. Reber is goin’ to have a hard time gettin’ here.”

“They spoke about the road being guarded. Did they mean against Mr.
Reber?”

“Might be. We’ll just wait and see what happens.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Buck Priest and his men went back to the ranch and packed two horses
with blankets and enough food to last them several days. It was about
dark when they headed southeast toward the Porcupine hills. Priest’s
idea was to travel along the Porcupine for a way and then turn south
toward the Circle S.

As far as he knew there had been no misbranding of cattle. Therefore he
was of the opinion that the rustlers were moving a bunch of his stock
toward the West Fork pass. If Park Reber were stealing cattle, that was
the pass he would take them through to Clear Valley.

There was just enough moonlight to enable them to see to travel by. Buck
hoped to find the rustler’s camp, but after traveling far along the
Porcupine he decided to head toward the Half-Wheel, which was almost due
west of where they were now. He reasoned that if the rustlers knew that
O’Steen had escaped wounded they would possibly drop the herd and head
for the Half-Wheel.

In the meantime Park Reber had gathered a dozen riders and was also
heading down the valley. Nelson had told him what the two masked men had
said about the road’s being dangerous, and Reber was not the man not to
heed a warning. He left the road a short distance out of Tomahawk and
took to the open hills where there would be no danger of an ambush.

“We’ll head straight toward Jack Silver’s place,” he told his men. “Buck
Priest is in with Silver on this deal, that’s a cinch, so there’s no use
going to his place.”

“And if it’s a scheme to run a lot of cattle out of the valley they’ll
use the Trapper Creek pass,” declared Nelson. “I’d like to notch my
sight on the jasper that killed old Sam Herd.”

“There’ll be plenty of chances before this time tomorrow night,” said
Reber. “I’ll clean this valley of every rustler or quit the cow business
myself.”

The men knew the hills well, and they were able to make good time. Reber
was suffering considerably with his shoulder, but he gritted his teeth
and led the way.

There were no lights showing at the Half-Wheel when Buck Priest led his
men down to the road past the ranch. For quite a while they sat on their
horses at a little distance from the ranchhouse, debating just what to
do.

“We’ll go on,” decided Buck Priest. “Before daylight we can be in the
West Fork pass, and if they run those cows into that pass we’ll show the
dirty thieves a merry time.”

“Jist lemme get a sight of the fellers that leaded up O’Steen,” said
Rowdy. “I’m shore honin’ for a chance at ’em.”

“Daylight will tell the tale,” said Priest. “They’ll try and run ’em
through early in the mornin’. I wouldn’t be surprized to find the hills
around the Two Bar X full of my cows.”

They were about two miles south of the Half-Wheel, traveling along the
road through a narrow defile in the heavy brush, when a rifle spat fire
almost in front of them. It was so sudden and unexpected that the four
riders whirled in a mass, trying to control their horses. From several
places in the brush came orange-colored flashes, followed by the angry
spat of rifle shots. Buck Priest’s horse went down in a heap, pinning
Buck to the ground.

Ken Mader’s horse fell, but Ken flung himself free and began shooting
from the ground. For several moments it was a nightmare of rearing,
kicking horses and sporadic flashing of rifle and revolver shots. Mader
went down on his face.

Rowdy’s horse was shot from under him, but he managed to regain his feet
and mount behind Dick Leesom and spur the frightened horse into a gallop
back up the road. Dick had been shot through the side and was unable to
control his horse or to shoot a gun.

A flurry of rifle shots followed them, but the bullets buzzed far over
their heads.

Not one of the bushwhackers came in sight. As far as they were concerned
they never existed. Buck Priest had dropped flat on his back to escape
the hail of lead. His leg was pinned beneath his dead horse, and it was
impossible for him to extricate it. He could see the white face of Ken
Mader in the moonlight, and he cursed Park Reber and his men.

He tried to draw his leg loose from beneath the horse, but the pain
forced him to desist. He was sure the leg was broken. He swore bitterly,
feeling sure that they had run into the rustler’s ambush.

Back in the hills, only a mile away from the road, were Park Reber and
his men. They had heard the shooting, but the echoes were so confusing
that none of them could tell where the shooting was taking place.

“Sounded like a battle all right,” declared Reber. “We’d better head for
the road, I think. Unless I’m mistaken, that’s where the shooting came
from.”

They traveled due east, striking the road a few hundred yards north of
where the ambush had been laid. They did not see Leesom and Dow, who had
gone past the spot, and were heading north. But they did find Dow’s hat
in the road. It was a black Stetson, fairly new, but not marked with
name or initial.

“Somebody goin’ plenty fast,” said one of the men. “That’s hat’s too
good for a puncher to throw it away.”

“No way to tell which way he was goin’,” drawled a cowboy.

“We’ll go south and take a chance,” said Reber. And then they found Buck
Priest, pinned down by his dead horse, and Ken Mader lying dead beside
his dead horse. The men dismounted. Buck Priest recognized them and spat
a curse at Park Reber.

“Got yuh, eh?” grunted Reber.

“Mader’s dead,” said one of the men.

Reber gave them orders to lift the horse off Priest’s leg.

“Well, you’ve got me, Reber,” said Priest. “My leg’s busted. I hope
yo’re satisfied, you dirty cow thief!”

“I will be satisfied, yuh can bet on that,” said Reber. “Yo’re all
through in this valley, Buck Priest--you and yore S Bar P outfit. When I
get my hands on Jack Silver I’ve made a clean sweep.”

“When yuh do,” gritted Priest.

“Oh, I will,” rasped Reber. “I’ve started out to clean up this valley.”

“Clean! It’ll never be clean as long as _you_ live. You killed O’Steen
today--yore men did. He saw yuh stealin’ my cows. And yuh--oh what’s the
use? You’ve got the best hand, Reber. Go ahead and do what yuh want to.”

“I never killed O’Steen,” denied Reber.

“Yore men did.”

“Did they? I didn’t know it. Where’s June Meline?”

“That female fiddler?”

“Yeah, that female fiddler! Where is she?”

“I heard somebody stole her.”

“Oh, yuh did, eh? I reckon yuh didn’t need to _hear_ it. Some of you
boys lift him on a horse. We’ll take him along with us and settle his
case at the Two Bar X.”

They lifted Buck Priest to a saddle, and he cursed them for hurting his
broken leg. Perhaps they were none too gentle.

“Want to rope him on, Park?” asked one of the men.

“What for? If he falls off he can’t run away, can he?”

Two of the cowboys rode double and one of them led Buck Priest’s horse.
The jolting of the horse was misery to Priest, but he clamped his jaws
tightly and held all his weight on his right stirrup.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The first faint touch of dawn streaked the old pole corrals and the
stables of the Two Bar X. Huddled in a chair beside the table in the
main room sat June Meline, wrapped in a blanket, asleep. At one of the
front windows stood Jack Silver. He had watched all night for the return
of Bell, who he was sure would come back. The body of McLeese still lay
where it fell.

He turned his head and saw June looking at him. She had slept for
several hours.

“How are yuh feelin’, June?” he asked.

“All right, Jack. Oh, I must have slept a long time. Why, it’s morning!”

“Just about. We’ll get some breakfast and then I’ll rope a couple of
horses. I dunno what became of my horse, but I think they took him away.
We’re goin’ back to Tomahawk, June. Somethin’ is wrong out here.”

She nodded and got up from her chair.

“I’ll get the breakfast, Jack. I can cook.”

“I’ll betcha,” he smiled. “Yo’re quite a woman, June. I don’t blame
Reber for likin’ yuh. I never knew that women had the nerve you’ve got.
After what you went through since yuh left Tomahawk yesterday, it’s a
wonder you’ve got any nerve left.”

“But I’ve been frightened,” confessed June. “If you had said ‘boo!’ to
me yesterday I’d have dropped your gun.”

“Mebbe not,” said Jack smiling. “That gun is too easy on the trigger to
take any chances. I might have just booed a bullet into my nervous
system.”

Jack laughed and turned back to the window, leaning forward tensely.
There were cattle drifting past the rear of the corrals and sheds--a
compact mass of moving animals heading northwest toward the West Fork
pass. Jack stepped to the door and opened it enough to give him a
farther view down the valley. As far as he could see down the valley
there were cattle surging ahead like a brown wave.

Jack shut the door quickly. A man had slipped through the corral-fence
at the corner of a shed, a man carrying a rifle in his hand.

“What is it, Jack?” asked June anxiously.

“The big steal!” he exclaimed. “I know the answer now, June. Reber’s own
men are stealing from him--taking a big herd over the West Fork pass.
That’s why they stole yuh, don’t yuh see? They didn’t want anybody here
to see ’em. That’s why there wasn’t anybody here, June.

“That’s why they’ve blocked the road against Reber. McLeese had this
framed before Reber fired him. God knows how many of Reber’s men are in
on it. They’re tryin’ to send ’em over the pass before anybody can get
out here to catch ’em.”

“But--but they know we’re here,” panted June.

“They sure do,” said Jack bitterly. “Keep out of line with the windows.
I’ve got the doors fastened and I’ve got two guns. But our best chance
is to lay low. We know too much for them to let us get out alive, June.
Their plans were upset when Reber sent you out here.”

“But won’t they be in such a hurry to get the cattle over the pass that
they’ll leave us alone?”

June’s answer came in the form of a bullet, which smashed out a pane of
glass and thudded into the rear wall of the room. Jack drew June back
against the wall, and they edged their way to the front of the room.

“Flat on the floor under the windows,” said Jack. “They’ll not shoot
that low.”

A shower of glass sprayed over them when a bullet tore through the
window casing.

“Shootin’ wild,” said Jack easily. “Listen to the cattle.”

They could hear the dull rumble of the moving herd, the soft bawling of
calves.

“They’re movin’ a mighty big herd,” said Jack. “It sure will hit Park
Reber hard.”

“You ought to be glad,” said June wearily.

“I wonder if I am? If it was anybody but his own men I might.”

“You believe in loyalty, Jack?”

“If yuh mean trustin’ a friend or an employee--yes.”

“You’ve been to school?”

Jack nodded shortly.

“Six years, June--in Cheyenne.”

“Who sent you there?”

“I don’t know. I don’t even know who paid for it. I was sent from the
reservation when I was about eight years old. I never went back there,
June. I was fourteen when I came here. I worked for Buck Priest quite a
while, and then I built me a place on Trapper Creek. I was goin’ to be a
cowman, and I had a good start, but Park Reber’s men killed off my
cattle. I’ve been in the valley eleven years.”

“You are twenty-five years old, Jack?”

“I think so.”

“Who was your father?”

He looked queerly at her. Another bullet smashed through the kitchen
window and ricocheted off the stove.

“I don’t know who he was,” said Jack. He ran his fingers along the
barrel of his six-shooter. “No one would tell me after I came back from
school. They said I was the son of a squaw-man.”

Jack sat up with his shoulders against the corner of the room. Some one
had come on the porch and was near the door. Jack leaned sidewise and
sent a bullet angling through the center panel. His shot was echoed by a
yelp and a curse.

“They’re still in there!” yelled a voice.

Bullets came through the door about two feet above the floor and more
came through the smashed windows. The opposite wall of the room was
beginning to show signs of wear. A bullet smashed the lamp, causing a
small shower of kerosene.

Some one was trying to open the kitchen door. Jack snaked along the wall
to the kitchen entrance and sent a bullet through the door just above
the knob. He heard a sharp cry and turned to see June, one hand across
her face. She had tried to follow him.

He rolled back to her and drew her back under the window. A bullet had
come through just below the sill, and had scored her temple just enough
to break the skin and raise a blue welt. She was dazed, bewildered. She
tried to get to her feet, but Jack pulled her down.

“You’re all right, June,” he told her. “It’s not serious. Stay down,
girl!”

He held to her with one hand. There was smoke drifting in through the
broken window--too much smoke to be caused by the shooting. Jack sniffed
at it.

Wood smoke! They had fired the ranchhouse!

He could hear the flames crackling now, and the smoke was getting
heavier. June was recovering, but it seemed that the injury had broken
her nerve. She began crying softly and Jack patted her on the arm.

“It’s all right, June,” he told her. “Don’t cry. You’ve got to hang on
to yore nerve, girl. They’ve set the house on fire. It’s do or die, I
guess. We can’t stay here and burn to death.”

The wall was getting hot. There was a little breeze, and the seasoned
old building was as dry as tinder. June blinked at him through her
tears. She understood what he was saying.

“We’ll crawl to the kitchen door,” he told her. “I’ll open the door and
jump out. Mebbe I can drive ’em back so you can get away. It’s our only
chance. They might let yuh go and figure on catchin’ yuh. I’ll stop ’em
as long as I can, June.”

They slid along the wall to the kitchen.

The shooting had stopped. Jack knew they were merely waiting for them to
try to make a break. Beside the door they stopped and Jack held out his
hand to her.

“Good-by, June. You stay here until I tell yuh when to come out--if I
last that long.”

“Good-by, Jack.” June’s face was white and drawn. “I forced you into
this. If it hadn’t been for me you’d be free.”

“Tha’s all right; it was a mistake, June. It’s all in the game. I reckon
I’d forgive you for anythin’. Good-by.”

He raised up from his haunches, grasped the door with his left hand and
gave it a jerk. It stuck fast. He dropped the gun in his holster and
grasped the door with both hands but it refused to open.

“Stay here, June,” he panted, dropping to his knees and crawled back to
the front door.

The room was full of smoke now.

He went to the door, got to his feet and tried to open it. He could
force it open about two inches--enough to see that a rope ran from the
knob to a porch-post.

A bullet smashed through the paneling and raked him along the forearm.
He dropped to his knees, coughing from the smoke, and crawled back to
June. His left forearm and hand were covered with blood.

“They’ve locked us in, June,” he said. “If we try to get through a
window they’ll riddle us.”

June merely stared at him, her mind refusing to work.

“You mean, we can’t get out--we’ve got to burn?”

Jack was staring at a spot in the center of the floor. There was a metal
ring sunk in the floor, and beyond it were two hinges--the roothouse
trap-door.

He sprawled over and dug the ring loose. With a heave he opened the
trap, and the odor of musty old vegetables filled the room. An old
ladder led down to the bottom. June went down first. There was more
shooting, but they could not hear the bullets now.

Jack left the trap open to give them a little light. The roothouse was
about six feet deep and of about the width of the kitchen. It was cool
down there, and no smoke penetrated. They took deep breaths to rid their
lungs of the smoke.

On one side was an accumulation of old boxes and barrels. Jack lighted a
match and almost shouted with joy. Behind those old boxes and barrels
was a stairway which led to an outside roothouse door.

He flung the boxes aside, clearing the disused stairway, a prayer in his
heart that the door might not be nailed down. They could hear the
snapping of the flames now, the hoarse shouts of men, the crackle of
guns.

Jack put his shoulder against the old slanting door and lifted enough to
find that it was not fastened down.

“We’ll beat ’em yet, June,” he panted. “The fire seems to be mostly at
the front of the house yet. We can stay here for a few minutes.”

June was swaying sidewise, and before Jack could spring to her
assistance she had fainted. He lifted her up and held her in his arms.
In falling she had struck her head against the corner of a box, cutting
it badly.

He tore the muffler from around his neck and bound it around her head.
Then he picked her up in his arms and staggered up the old steps, where
he hunched in as low as possible, bracing his right shoulder against the
door.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Park Reber did not lead his men straight for the Two Bar X, but took the
left-hand road and headed for the Circle S, where he decided to pick up
Jim Carlin and his men. He intended sending one man from there to the
Lightning to get the assistance of Nort Jackson and his crew. Reber was
going to have enough men to comb every inch of the country.

It was nearing daylight when they rode into the Circle S. The ranch was
deserted.

“Mebbe they’re chasin’ rustlers already,” said one of the men.

“More likely out doin’ a little rustlin’,” said Buck Priest grimly. His
face was the color of ashes, his left leg dangling uselessly from
outside the stirrup. The old man was living on his nerve now. Park Reber
scowled at him, but said nothing in reply to Priest’s sarcasm.

“Shall we go to the Lightnin’?” asked a cowboy.

“No,” said Reber shortly, and headed for the Two Bar X.

The men were tired, sleepy, hungry; they were willing to go anywhere to
stop for a while. They did not go back to the road, but cut across the
hills. Daylight came swiftly, and the sun was painting the tops of the
hills when they struck the road about a mile below the Two Bar X.

And here the road was a mass of cow tracks. Reber leaned forward in his
saddle, pointing at them.

“The trail of the rustlers,” he said. “They’re headin’ for the West Fork
pass.”

“Listen!” Nelson threw up his hand.

From far up the road they could hear the rattle of rifle shots.

“My ----!” exclaimed Reber. “The boys of the Two Bar X are tryin’ to
stop ’em! Come on!”

Some one lashed Buck Priest’s horse across the rump with a rope, and the
animal almost unseated the suffering old man. He gritted his teeth and
rode along with them. The men were riding with rifles in their hands
now.

About three hundred yards short of the Two Bar X, the road topped an
elevation around the point of a hill and, as they swung around this
point, Park Reber, riding at the head of his men, drew rein.

The whole front end of the ranchhouse was enveloped in flames, and
beyond the burning house the hills were full of cattle. They saw a man
running away from the corrals. He mounted a horse and headed for the
cattle.

A rifle bullet struck the ground in front of Reber’s horse and buzzed
angrily away. The riders separated like a covey of quail. Another bullet
thudded against a horse, and its rider flung himself free as the horse
reared up and fell backward.

Cowboys were dismounting as swiftly as possible, letting their horses
go; then they ran ahead, taking advantage of every bit of cover. Rifles
began to crack as the Reber men searched the corrals and sheds with
bullets.

Mounted men began riding from behind the stable, heading toward the
cattle.

“Get yore horses!” yelled Reber. “They’re headin’ for the pass.”

The men continued to shoot at the retreating cowboys. One of them
pitched sidewise off his horse, and his horse came back toward the
stable. Reber’s men mounted swiftly and swept down on the ranch.

A man ran from the stable-door, trying to get around the corner, but a
hail of bullets cut him down. He went flat on his side, rolled over and
fired one shot in return. Park Reber jerked back in his saddle and slid
to the ground.

At that same moment one of the men yelled warningly. The outside
roothouse door was flung open and out came Jack Silver, carrying June
Meline across one arm. He staggered, flung up his right hand to shoot at
them, but tripped over an old water-bucket and fell flat.

Several cowboys threw themselves upon him before he could get up, and
held him tightly. They yanked him to his feet, and others took charge of
June.

“Well, yuh got me, I guess,” panted Jack.

“I guess we have!” snorted a cowboy. “Yo’re all through, you dirty
half-breed.”

Jack shut his lips tightly.

“Reber’s been hit hard,” said one of the men. “That feller down at the
stable got him.”

They led Jack around to where Reber was lying. But Jack paid no
attention to Reber; he was staring at old Buck Priest, who was barely
able to sit in his saddle.

Park Reber had the men lift him to a sitting position. He looked at Jack
Silver closely.

“I swore I’d get you, Silver,” he said. “I started out last night to
clean out the valley. I don’t know how badly I’m hurt, but it’s bad
enough. But you’ve stolen your last cow, kidnaped your last woman. If
you’ve got any prayers to say you better say ’em.”

“I’m not prayin’,” said Jack coldly. “I never stole yore cows and I
never kidnaped any woman.”

“What else could yuh say?” cried Reber, and then to his men, “Run a rope
over the ridge-pole of the stable.”

The men hurried to do his bidding. Old Buck Priest had heard Reber’s
order, and it seemed to amuse him greatly.

“Goin’ to hang the lad, eh?” he laughed. “Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! That’s good!
Goin’ to die with that on yore dirty soul, eh? It’s like yuh, Reber.”

He turned to Jack, who was being held by two men.

“Reber’s men bushwhacked me last night, Jack. They killed Ken Mader.
Yesterday afternoon they killed O’Steen.”

“You lie!” declared Reber weakly. “You’re tryin’ to turn it around. You
stole my cattle and my men caught yuh.”

“And yore men shot Sam Herd yesterday, Priest,” declared Nelson.

“Lies!” panted Buck. “All lies! We didn’t know Herd was dead until we
met yuh at the forks of the road, Nelson.”

“The rope’s ready, Park,” called one of the men.

One of the cowboys threw a noose around Jack’s neck, but he did not
quiver. He was probably the coolest man in the crowd.

“Have you said yore prayer?” asked Reber.

Jack shut his lips tightly.

“All right,” said Reber weakly.

“I wish you’d wait until June Meline recovers,” said Jack. “She might
have somethin’ to say.”

“Your time is up, Silver.”

“Yuh better not hang him,” said Buck Priest. “You’ll be sorry, Reber.
Ain’t there nothin’ that can save him?”

“Not a thing, Priest.”

“All right, Reber. Go ahead and hang him. Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! Hang him, you
dirty old pup! Hang yore own son, and be ---- to yuh! Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!”

In spite of his weakness, Reber jerked forward, staring at Buck Priest.
Jack Silver stumbled forward, his eyes on the curiously twisted features
of the old cattleman. Reber tore his gaze away and looked at Jack
Silver.

“You lie, Priest!” he said.

“I don’t lie! He’s your son, Park. His mother died when he was born and
he was nursed by a squaw. Ask him who his father was--he don’t know, I
tell yuh!”

Jack shook his head.

“I kept track of him, Park,” said Priest. “I shipped him to school and
paid for it. I wanted an ace in the hole. You’ve always wondered if
there was a child. Look at him, Reber. He’s yore own flesh and
blood--and you’re goin’ to hang him! Let’s get it over with, Reber. I
want to see you hang yore own son.”

Reber shut his eyes, and after a few moments the tears trickled down his
cheeks. The wound was sapping his strength. It was a long way to a
doctor, and he knew he couldn’t live till one came.

One of his men came bustling into the crowd.

“Hey,” he shouted, “that fellow down by the stable is Bell, of this
ranch, and the one on the hill up there is Bob Cliff, of the Lightnin’!
What does it mean?”

“It means that Reber’s own men planned to clean him out,” said Jack
Silver. “They kidnaped June Meline. I found her and brought her here.
Last night Bell killed McLeese. He was on the porch and he’s burned up
by this time. I think you’ll find that the Circle X, Lightnin’ and Two
Bar X outfits were makin’ a big steal, but circumstances blocked ’em.”

Reber opened his eyes and stared at Jack.

“Is that all true, Jack?” he asked.

“The girl’s awake,” burst in one of the men.

They brought her over to Reber. She saw the rope around Jack’s neck.

“He--he saved me!” she said hoarsely to Reber. “Jack Silver wasn’t to
blame. It was your own men. Oh, you’ve been hurt again!”

Reber leaned back and his face was very white now.

“Come in close, boys,” he said weakly. “Listen to what I’m sayin’. No
time to write. Jack Silver is my son. Everything I own belongs to him. I
think Buck Priest taught him to hate me. I--I didn’t kill off his herd
of cattle. Mebbe my men did it. But it’s all right now. He owns this
valley and everything else I have.

“Get Buck Priest to a doctor. I don’t hate him any more. He gave me back
my son. Jack--come closer. This--is--June. She’s--fine. I--I--”

His head fell forward on his chest.

                   *       *       *       *       *

There was little left of the old ranchhouse when Jack Silver and June
Meline stood beside the body of Park Reber, who seemed to be smiling in
his sleep. Nelson came up to Jack and held out his hand.

“You’ll have to hire new crews, Jack,” he said. “I imagine a lot of
Diamond R men went over the West Fork pass this mornin’.”

“Let ’em go,” said Jack. “There’s been enough killin’.”

He put his good arm around June and they went down toward the stables,
where the men were rigging a stretcher to carry Buck Priest back to his
ranch.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the May 15, 1927 issue of
Adventure magazine.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE VALLEY OF LOST HERDS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
The Project Gutenberg eBook of The valley of lost herds, by W. C. Tuttle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The valley of lost herds

Author: W. C. Tuttle

Release Date: May 22, 2023 [eBook #70832]

Language: English

Produced by: Roger Frank and Sue Clark

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE VALLEY OF LOST HERDS ***

THE VALLEY OF LOST HERDS

by W. C. Tuttle

A New Kind of Ranch Foreman Deals with Cattle-Rustlers


The big Tomahawk--saloon, gambling palace, honkatonk--blazed with
lights. Cowboys jostled each other at the long bar, or laughed and made
merry with the girls who thronged the rooms. The roulette whirred, poker
chips rattled and the voices of the dealers droned above the roar of the
crowd.

It was the big night of the month in Tomahawk--pay night on the Reber
ranches. And pay night on the Reber ranches meant that all the small
ranches to the north would also pay off and let their men come to town.
There was no limit to anything. Reber owned the Tomahawk Saloon; owned
nearly everything else in the town of Tomahawk, as far as that was
concerned.

And with one exception he owned all of Reber Valley. It had been known
as Tomahawk Valley, and was still Tomahawk Valley on the map, but to
those who lived there it was Reber Valley. For Park Reber owned the M
33, Half-Wheel, Circle S, Two Bar X and the Lightning. There was really
only one ranch he did not own, the S Bar P. There was another little
place twenty miles south of Tomahawk which belonged to Jack Silver, who
had never registered any brand. So, outside of the S Bar P, Park Reber
really owned the valley.

In an area thirty miles long by about fifteen miles in width Park Reber
was supreme--a real cattle baron. And Park Reber sat in his big house in
Tomahawk town, all alone except for a Chinese cook, and gloated. He was
_the_ big man of the country--big and lonesome. And sometimes he was
mad, they said. Men worked for him, spent their money in his saloon and
gambling house; but none of them admired him.

He was about sixty years of age--white-haired, harsh of feature, his
deep-set eyes gloomy. Over his left eye was a white scar like a crescent
moon, and he often touched it, as if it annoyed him. He drove his men
hard, demanded results and got most of their wages back _via_ the green
cloth.

It had taken him twenty years to become owner of the valley.

His herds, the Diamond R brand, roamed the many hills. While his ranches
were all designated by their original brand names, all the stock was
branded with the Diamond R. Other ranches shipped from Tomahawk, but the
Diamond R was the heavy shipper. They owned the loading corrals--or
rather Reber did.

Park Reber did not come often to the Tomahawk Saloon, but he had been
coming oftener of late. Some said it was because of June Meline, the
tall, black-haired beauty who played the violin. She was not a fiddler.
There seemed a difference between June Meline and the rest of the girls
of the honkatonk. Her white skin was untouched by rouge or paint and
there was an imperious lift to her well shaped head. Nor did she mix
with the others.

Park Reber loved music and most of all he loved the wailing notes of her
violin. Often she had come to his table to talk with him. She refused
drinks, but liked to discuss with him his business troubles. Some said
she was trying to “rope-in” the old man, but Park Reber knew better. He
admired her level-headed way of looking at things.

And on this pay night Park Reber came again, taking his usual table,
where he might drink and watch the show. With him was “Slim” Patterson,
foreman of the Half-Wheel ranch. Their table was near the platform,
where the three-piece orchestra rattled out its tin-panny music.

The show was just at its height as they sat down. There was a burst of
applause as June Meline came out carrying her violin. She was dressed in
black silk, which accentuated the pallor of her skin. Only the piano
played her accompaniment, and as she lifted her violin the pianist
hesitated.

Some one had spoken a word aloud--the name of a man.

“‘Buck’ Priest!”

And there he stood, not more than six feet away from Park Reber, backed
by two of his men. It was the first time Buck Priest had ever been in
the Tomahawk Saloon. He was as old as Park Reber, possibly older. He
wore his hair long, but his thin, evil face, with the hawk-bill nose,
was smooth-shaven. He wore a silver-trimmed sombrero, buckskin shirt,
gray trousers tucked in the tops of his high-heeled boots, and around
his waist was a wide, beautifully carved leather cartridge belt
supporting a holstered Colt.

The men with him were hard-bitted cowboys--fighting men of the S Bar P.
It took nerve for Buck Priest to lead his men in among the cowboys of
the Diamond R. But Buck Priest had nerve. He had fought Park Reber until
Reber had told his men to leave the S Bar P alone.

At one time--over twenty years ago--these two men had been comrades.

It was evident that Buck Priest was drunk this night. He was not a
drinking man, but once a year Buck Priest would get drunk; and when he
got drunk, he was so cold-blooded that even his own men did not wish to
associate with him.

It seemed as if every man in the room were holding his breath. Park
Reber got slowly to his feet, and Priest laughed harshly.

“You dirty old cow thief!”

Buck Priest fairly hissed the words at Reber.

“You sneakin’ old rustler!”

No one moved; no one spoke. The two men, one on each side of Buck
Priest, were bent forward tensely, their eyes sweeping the room, ready
to draw and shoot at the first move. Park Reber’s eyes blinked angrily,
but he held still, staring at Buck Priest.

“I’m talkin’ to you, Reber,” said Priest slowly. “Callin’ you a thief.
And you ain’t gut guts enough to deny it. You’ve rustled my cows just as
long as you’re goin’ to, Reber. I’ve come into the lion’s den to tell
yuh what I think of yuh, you cow thief!”

There could be but one answer to that accusation. Reber had been a
gun-man, but of late years he had left that distinction to his hired
men. He did not wear a belt and gun, but under his left arm-pit was a
holstered Colt; and now he jerked back, reaching for this concealed gun.

It was what Buck Priest wanted, what he came there to force Park Reber
to do--reach for a gun. His hand streaked down to his thigh and whipped
up a big black-handled revolver. For a fraction of a second Park Reber’s
life was not worth a penny. Something flashed between Reber and Priest
just as Priest pulled the trigger--something that smashed against
Priest’s hand and arm, partly ruining the shot which was intended for
Park Reber’s heart.

The big gun thundered as Buck Priest jerked sidewise. Park Reber stepped
backward against his chair, tripped and fell to the floor. Priest and
his two men whirled and headed for the doorway, and the crowd gave them
plenty of room.

Men lifted Reber to his feet and then set him in a chair.

“That fiddler girl!” exclaimed one of them. “She threw her fiddle and
hit Buck Priest on the arm.”

The girl sprang from the platform and was at Park Reber’s side in a
moment, and he smiled at her. Slim Patterson ripped away the shoulder of
his coat. The room was in an uproar. No one thought of going after Buck
Priest. Some one went after a doctor, who came in a few minutes.

The bullet had struck high in Reber’s shoulder, and he was quite ill.
The doctor, skilled in gunshot cases, told him he was very lucky. Some
one had recovered the violin, but it had been walked on until it hardly
resembled an instrument. The girl looked ruefully at it, but said
nothing.

Several of the cowboys secured a cot, using it in lieu of a stretcher,
and carried Reber home; but not until he had received June Meline’s
assurance that she would act as his nurse.

“I wish you would,” said the doctor. “Nurses are hard to find out here.
And, anyway, your violin is broken.”

“I’ll buy yuh a carload,” said Reber weakly. “Don’t leave me alone with
Hop Lee and this darned doctor. I’ve got lots of room up there, June.”

And so June Meline became nurse for Park Reber. She knew little about
nursing and told Park Reber so. But he grinned painfully and told her he
didn’t know much about being shot, as far as that was concerned.

She took up her residence in the big old house, which was really a
ranchhouse, in the town. Hop Lee, the old Chinese cook, who cared for no
one except Park Reber, took to June and actually smiled at her.

It was a new sensation to Park Reber, this idea of having a woman
around. Not in nearly twenty-five years had he seen a woman in his
house. His five foremen came at irregular intervals to report to him,
and June often heard the name of Buck Priest spoken.

There was another name that caused Park Reber to curse--the name of Jack
Silver.

It seemed that Jack Silver’s name was connected with the word “rustler.”
There were two of these foreman that June did not like--Nort Jackson of
the Lightning and Dave McLeese of the Two Bar X.

Nort Jackson was tall, thin, swarthy, black of eye, and wore a weak
black mustache. He smiled at her too much, June thought. McLeese was
ruddy of skin, with cold blue eyes under huge blonde brows. His nose had
been broken across the arch and a huge scar twisted his mouth into a
leer. Reber told her McLeese had been kicked in the face by a shod
horse.

                   *       *       *       *       *

It was several days after the shooting of Reber. Up to this time he had
not mentioned Buck Priest to her. The doctor had finished dressing the
wound and had given her orders for the feeding of the patient. Reber had
been watching her closely for quite a while.

“Gettin’ tired of bein’ nurse to an old man?” he asked suddenly.

June smiled at him and shook her head.

“No, I’m not tired, Mr. Reber.”

“That’s good. I like you, June. You saved my life that night. Buck
Priest is a good shot. He meant to kill me, yuh see. You shore thought
real quick, June. You’ve got a head, girl. I’ve watched yuh around here
and I’ve talked to yuh. You’ve got sense--too much sense to be playing a
violin in a honkatonk.”

June smiled at him.

“One must eat, Mr. Reber. And you have paid me better than I could get
any other place.”

“You’ve earned it, June. I wondered how they’d take yore kind of music.
But cowboys are sentimental. I’ve seen ’em cry over yore music. Give the
average cowboy a few drinks and he’ll cry over ‘Home Sweet Home’. Yes,
they will, June. Lot’s of ’em never had a regular home; lots of ’em were
kicked out early in life--but they’ll cry, just the same.”

“I suppose,” said June, nodding.

“And you never asked me anythin’ about Buck Priest. That night he called
me a dirty cow thief, didn’t he?”

Park Reber smiled bitterly.

“Mebbe Buck was drunk. He’s hated me for years, June. Oh, I’m no angel.
I tried to run Buck out of this country. He’s a fighter. He’s not sorry
he shot me, but sorry he didn’t kill me.”

“Why didn’t you have him arrested, Mr. Reber?”

“Arrested? For shootin’ me? Why, no, June, it was an even break. My
shoulder-holster--well, it isn’t a fast draw. I’d have killed him. Oh,
he hates me! Funny, isn’t it, June? We used to be pardners--me and Buck.

“And it was all over a woman--a woman like you, June. She was like you
in lots of ways, I think. The valley wasn’t what it is now. Tomahawk was
a tradin’ post. This girl came here with her family in a covered wagon.
I was in the south end of the valley at that time, where me and Buck had
a small herd of cattle. Buck was here at the post, and met her.

“He was two days late bringing in supplies, and when he came he told me
about her. I told him he was a fool to even think of a girl. It was a
bad country to bring a girl into. The Cheyennes were unfriendly then,
and there were a lot of them in the valley. They stole cattle and
horses. It kept us busy protectin’ our herds.

“But Buck went back to the post, over thirty miles from our ranch, and
was gone five days. He was going to bring in more ammunition, but when
he came back he was drunk and had no ammunition, so I left him there and
went after it.

“And I met this girl. Her name was Janice Gray. Pretty name, eh? And she
was pretty. I found that Buck had proposed to her and she had turned him
down. Two days later we were married and went back to the ranch.”

Park Reber smiled bitterly and looked at the ceiling.

“I don’t know why she married me, June. I can see the look on Buck’s
face yet when we rode in and told him. And I had forgotten the
ammunition. He didn’t say much. Didn’t wish us happiness--just sat there
and looked at the ground. Finally he said--

“‘Park, I’ll pay you for this some day.’”

“I didn’t know what he meant at the time. He saddled his horse and rode
away. Later on he built a cabin at the forks of the river and sent two
men for half of the stock. I helped them round up all the cattle and
horses, and we divided them equally.

“But he never came near me. I heard that he said he would pay me back
for what I had done, but I did not pay any attention to what I heard. We
were happy, Janice and I. The spring came and turned into summer. There
were few settlers. The Cheyennes were gettin’ worse, but every one said
that when the winter came they’d be driven out by the deep snows and
lack of game. The deer all move over to Clear Valley in the winter,
because of the laurel, which does not grow here.

“The winter came early that season. I had cut a lot of wild hay on the
bottoms, but not enough to feed stock all winter. In October there was
three feet of snow, and it did not go off. By Christmas my hay was all
gone, and I was in a desperate condition.

“I knew that the north end of the valley was open, and there was only
one thing to try and do--to take my herd out of my range. I had one man
working for me. He was a young man by the name of Sneed--John Sneed--a
good boy. I couldn’t leave Janice alone, yuh see. There would be a baby
along soon, and some one had to stay with her. There was a doctor at the
trading post. I tell yuh, I was desperate, so I broke trail with horses
and led my cattle to the upper end of the valley. It was a tough pull. I
took them past Buck’s place, but didn’t see him. He had moved his cattle
out a few days before, and the trail was open from there.

“I had to bring those half-starved cattle almost up to here, where I
threw them in with Buck’s cattle, and came on to the post. It was bitter
cold that night I rode in, but it warmed up a little, and by morning the
worst blizzard that ever swept this country came down through here.

“This whole valley was a howling hell of wind and snow, June. I don’t
suppose our cattle lasted one night. You couldn’t see a man at your
elbow. A man couldn’t live in it. Twenty below and a fifty-mile gale. I
swore I’d go home, but they stopped me. It lasted five days.

“And when the wind died down the temperature died with it, until the
thermometer at the post froze. Then we started for my place, the doctor
and me, traveling on snowshoes. The valley was a place of the dead.
There was not even a rabbit-track. Our cattle were under the drifts.

“There was some one at Buck’s cabin. We could see a thread of smoke from
his chimney; the rest of the cabin was buried in the snow. But there was
no smoke from my chimney.”

Park Reber shut his eyes, and for a while June thought he had fallen
asleep. Then:

“No, there was no smoke, June; the cabin was empty. We dug our way down
to the door and went in. There was John Sneed, lying face down in the
middle of the room--dead. His head had been cut open--his scalp taken.
The Cheyennes had been there. The doctor said he had been dead quite a
while. I think they had been there ahead of the blizzard.

“I don’t remember just what I did, June. They told me that I went
hunting for the Cheyenne camp; I don’t remember. Later I went back to
the post and spent the winter. In the spring I went to the Cheyennes and
tried to find some trace of my wife, but it was useless. They treated me
like a crazy man--and I reckon I was. Later on I went further north and
opened a saloon in a new mining camp. It was a money-maker, and in two
years I came back here and went into cattle again.

“Buck was still here; still hatin’ me. We met one day and he taunted me
with my loss. I tried to kill him with my hands and almost succeeded. It
didn’t help any. Buck Priest ain’t the kind you can whip into
friendship.

“And I think he hates me for being successful. I own practically all of
the Valley. They call it Reber’s Valley. That must hurt Buck Priest. I
tried to buy him out, but he wouldn’t sell. He shot my cattle when they
came on his range, and I--I shot his cattle on my range.

“Oh, it’s been a battle for years. Finally I gave my men orders to let
him and his cattle alone. It seemed to be a mutual truce. But my cattle
have disappeared. I don’t think Buck Priest took them.”

“Who is Jack Silver?” asked June.

Reber looked curiously at her.

“Jack Silver?”

“Yes, I heard his name spoken, Mr. Reber.”

“Jack Silver,” mused Reber. “A handsome devil of a breed, June. He’s
tall, graceful--too smart for my men. He comes to Tomahawk. He’s not
afraid of me. Half Cheyenne. There are no Cheyennes in the Valley now,
June. Uncle Sam keeps ’em on a reservation. But Jack Silver lives back
on Trapper Creek, twenty miles southwest of here. We’ve tried to catch
him stealing my cattle, but he eludes us.

“McLeese of the Two Bar X and Nort Jackson of the Lightnin’ have trailed
him for weeks; and Slim Patterson has tried to trap him, but he’s too
clever. He’s got the cunning of the Cheyenne, the brain of a white man.”

June sat in an old rocker, her chin resting on the palm of her right
hand, as she thought over Reber’s story. It was the first time she had
ever heard the reasons for Buck Priest’s hatred of Park Reber.

“How many head of cattle has Jack Silver stolen from you?” she asked.

Reber shook his head slowly.

“Who knows, June? More than I care to lose.”

He smiled at the thoughtful expression on her face.

“What would you do if you was in my place, June?”

“I was just thinking,” said June, “that if I were in your place I’d hire
Jack Silver to work for me.”

Reber frowned quickly. “Hire him to--”

“Why not? You’d save money--and he would be worth what you paid him,
wouldn’t he?”

“I never thought of that, June.”

They were interrupted by Hop Lee, who came in and told Reber that Slim
Patterson of the Half-Wheel was waiting to see him. June left the room
when Patterson came in.

“How’re yuh comin’?” asked Slim, sitting down in the chair June had
vacated.

“All right,” said Reber. “Be out in a day or so.”

“Good! Say, I was back between Trapper Creek and the West Fork yesterday
and I found about a hundred cows bunched in a draw back there. It shore
looked as though somebody was all set for a drive. Me and ‘Chuck’ Avery
laid there until night waitin’ for somebody to show up, but they didn’t.

“I left Chuck there and went home. Sent ‘Biddy’ Conley and Abe Lehman
out to keep him company and pulled out for here this mornin’, after
Biddy came in and said they hadn’t seen anybody yet.”

Reber sighed wearily.

“I dunno, Slim,” he said slowly. “I talked with McLeese the other day
and he suggested that we post men in that Trapper Creek pass. It might
be a good scheme. They can’t get past the Two Bar X into West Fork pass
without bein’ seen by some of the boys, and those are the only two ways
out, except past here.

“I’ll tell yuh what I want yuh to do, Slim. Send about three of yore men
to Trapper Creek pass, and then pack a message to Jackson, McLeese,
Franks and Carlin to be here at my place tomorrow night, and you come
with ’em. I’ve got a scheme to stop Jack Silver.”

“You have? That’s fine.”

Slim got to his feet and picked up his hat.

“I’ll pass the word to the boys for tomorrow night. Heard anythin’ more
of Buck Priest?”

“Not a word, Slim. Have you?”

“Only that he says yo’re stealin’ his cows. I think he’s tryin’ to
excuse himself for shootin’ yuh.”

Reber smiled slowly, and Slim went out.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The S Bar P ranchhouse and other buildings were of log construction,
rambling old structures one story in height. The ranchhouse and
bunk-house had the old mud-and-stone fire-places. Back of the stables
was Porcupine Creek, which ran northwest to Tomahawk River. It was about
six miles from the ranch to Tomahawk town.

It was the day after Reber had sent the message to his foremen when Jack
Silver rode in at the S Bar P ranch. He rode a tall black gelding, a
fitting mount for a man of his physique.

Silver was tall, lithe, dark-skinned. He wore his hair long, but his
face was smooth-shaven. His shirt was black, as were his muffler and
sombrero, and he wore no chaps. His high-heeled boots were of the
short-topped Southwest style, and around his waist was a hand-made
cartridge belt supporting a Colt gun in a hand-made holster.

He swung off his horse, waving a greeting to three of Buck Priest’s men
who were down near the corrals. Priest met him at the door of the
ranchhouse and they shook hands warmly.

“How are yuh, Jack?” asked Priest, as they sat down in the main room of
the ranchhouse.

“I’m fine,” replied Silver. “Been over in Clear Valley for a week and
just got back. Ran into Dave McLeese yesterday and he told me about you
and Reber havin’ a fight.”

Priest scowled heavily and slapped the palm of his right hand on his
knee.

“I tried to kill him, Jack. A girl ruined the shot.”

Silver smiled, showing a flash of white, even teeth.

“A girl, eh? McLeese didn’t tell me about her.”

“A fiddler in the Tomahawk,” said Priest. “Flung her fiddle and hit me
in the hand. Oh, I was goin’ to kill him, Jack. Reber and his gang of
cutthroats are runnin’ all the S Bar P cattle out of the valley.”

“I thought there was sort of a truce.”

“Truce!” Priest laughed shortly. “Reber sent me word that he’d quit if I
would. I quit, Jack. But he didn’t. The only way I can ever make Park
Reber quit is to kill him. Next time there won’t be any fiddle-throwin’
female present.”

Jack Silver laughed softly.

“You know what they think of me, Buck. I’m watched every minute by
Reber’s men. Why, I can’t even kill a piece of fresh meat any more.
They’re layin’ for a chance to kill me. Some day they’ll put up a job on
me--and I’ll swing for it.

“Oh, they’re nice to my face--McLeese, Jim Carlin, Nort Jackson--all
nice to my face. Behind my back they call me the dirty half-breed--the
Injun rustler. I trap for a livin’, Buck. You know that. Reber hates me
because I’m half Cheyenne.”

Buck Priest smiled crookedly, nodding slowly.

“There’s plenty of hate in this valley, Jack. I hope some day to see
Park Reber suffer.”

“He ought to be half Injun,” said Silver bitterly. “That’s enough
sufferin’ for one man. Last night he sent word to me by one of the
Half-Wheel punchers to be at his place tonight.”

“He sent word to you?”

“Yeah.”

“Wants to trap yuh, eh?”

Silver shrugged his shoulders.

“I played safe, Buck. Today I came across the hills and I’ll stay here
until dark. I don’t know what Reber wants.”

“He’s still crippled, and that girl is nursin’ him. She’s makin’ a play
for Reber.”

“Pretty girl, Buck?”

Priest nodded.

“Yeah, pretty as a picture. But what do yuh suppose Reber wants of you?”

“I dunno.”

“Are you goin’ to take a chance on him, Jack?”

“I’ll see what he wants.”

“It might be a scheme to harm yuh, Jack.”

“Might be. But as far as that’s concerned, if they want to kill me they
can pick me off most any time.”

“That’s true,” agreed Priest. “We’ll all ride in after supper, Jack. If
things go wrong, we’ll do what we can.”

“And if Reber finds you in town he’ll set his dogs on yuh,” said Silver
grimly.

“I’ll have my dogs along,” replied Buck meaningly. “We went into the
Tomahawk and came out safe enough. But I was drunk, Jack. It wasn’t a
job for a sober man. We sure shocked that gang a-plenty.”

“I wish I had been there,” smiled Jack. “I’ve never been in the
Tomahawk.”

“It’s not a safe place, Jack; and maybe you’ll find it out tonight.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

None of Reber’s foremen knew why he had sent for them. Some of them were
obliged to ride the length of the valley, but they were all
there--Patterson, Jackson, McLeese, Carlin and Franks. McLeese was
drunk; not blind drunk by any manner of means, but inclined to be
quarrelsome.

Park Reber was out of bed, and met them in the big living-room, a huge
place forty feet long and twenty-five feet wide. Around two sides of
this huge room was a wide veranda. At one end was a doorway leading out
on to the veranda; and there was another doorway about fifteen feet from
the corner, on the side. About midway of the room was a big window, and
there were two windows at the front end.

Across this front end of the room was a long table and a number of
chairs. On the opposite side of the room from the side entrance was a
huge fireplace, capable of taking ten-foot logs. Most of the furnishings
were of the home-made variety, and the floors were strewn with
bright-colored Navajo rugs and the skins of wolf and grizzly. The walls
were darkened with smoke and age.

The five foremen came in together. Reber seated them around the big
table, he himself sitting at the head of the table, still a trifle pale,
unable to use his left arm. At his right sat June Meline. She received
several undisguised scowls. Beside her sat Franks of the M 33. At the
opposite end of the table sat McLeese, scowling at everybody, and June
in particular. He did not like the idea of having a woman at their
conference. On the other side of the table sat Patterson, Jackson and
Carlin.

Reber’s glance swept around the table and came to rest on McLeese.

“You’re drunk,” he said shortly. “Why?”

McLeese grimaced and tried to laugh it off, but Reber’s eyes bored into
him and he coughed a little.

“I wanted sober men at this meetin’,” said Reber.

“I’m sober enough to know what I’m doin’,” said McLeese.

“Not if you had three drinks--and you’ve had more.”

Reber did not wait for McLeese to reply, but turned to the others.

“I brought you boys here tonight to see if we can’t figure out some way
to stop this rustlin’,” he said slowly. “We’re losin’ too many cattle to
suit me. What’s to be done?”

Patterson shook his head.

“I dunno, Park,” he said slowly. “It beats me.”

“How about you, Jackson?”

“Same as Slim.”

“Same here,” growled Carlin.

“They ain’t hit my place,” said Franks of the M 33. “Mebbe I’m too far
north.”

“That may be,” nodded Reber. “But it’s got to stop.”

“Go out and stop old Buck Priest,” said McLeese.

Reber studied McLeese’s flushed face.

“You think they’re runnin’ ’em out this end of the valley, Mac?”

“Priest hates yuh, don’t he? They’re not goin’ over the West Fork pass,
and the boys have been watchin’ the Trapper Creek pass. Jack Silver is
friendly to Buck Priest. By ----, I’d wipe out that whole ---- gang.”

“There’s a lady present,” said Reber coldly.

“I forgot,” said McLeese. “Anyway, I don’t think this is any place for a
woman.”

“I asked her to be here,” said Reber. “When I want yore opinion on that
I’ll ask for it, McLeese!”

“I’m jist wonderin’ if McLeese’s idea ain’t worth quite a lot, at that,”
said Jackson. “I don’t mean about the lady, but about Priest and Silver.
We’ve tried to trap Silver a lot of times, but he’s too much Injun to be
trapped.”

“He’s smart,” said McLeese.

“Too smart for you, eh?” asked Reber.

“Oh, I dunno,” flared McLeese.

“You haven’t landed him, and that’s the answer,” said Reber. “He’s too
smart. He thinks twice while you’re thinkin’ once. And you object to
this lady being here. She’s got more sense in a minute than you’ll ever
show, McLeese.”

Both June and McLeese flushed, but for different reasons.

The rest of the men eyed June closely. Perhaps they thought Reber was
getting old and that this pretty girl was in a position to get a hand
into the Reber fortune. It was an embarrassing position for the girl.
McLeese laughed, and they saw Reber’s lips tighten. Carlin kicked at
McLeese’s ankle beneath the table, but only succeeded in kicking a leg
of the table.

“We’re not gettin’ anywhere,” said Reber coldly.

“No, and we’ll not get anywhere as long as you’ll let Jack Silver and
Buck Priest do as they please,” growled Carlin. “Let’s clean ’em out, I
say.”

“On what evidence, Carlin?”

“General principles. Buck tried to kill you. He’ll try it again. Silver
is a half-breed thief. Just pass the word and we’ll rid the valley of
the whole brood.”

“Meanin’,” said Reber slowly, “that Silver is too smart for you to catch
red-handed, eh?”

“If yuh want to put it that way--yes.”

“You think he bunches up cattle and takes ’em through the Trapper Creek
pass and sells ’em in Clear Valley?”

“Cinch. We can’t get any evidence in Clear Valley. We’ve tried it often
enough.”

“That gang over there will take stolen cattle, that’s a cinch,” said
Jackson. “You’d never get any evidence if yuh went there in a gang--and
one or two men would soon be wiped out. They’re pretty clannish.”

Reber nodded slowly. He knew Jackson was right. Suddenly there came the
slither of a moving body, and they turned toward the big window about
ten feet beyond them. Just inside the window stood Jack Silver, his left
shoulder resting against the wall, his two thumbs hooked over his belt.

For several moments no one spoke. Silver laughed, and his teeth flashed
white in the light from the hanging lamp in the center of the room. He
seemed to be resting lazily against that shoulder, but every man at that
table knew he could draw and shoot quicker than any of them.

“Gentlemen, Mr. Silver himself,” said Reber slowly.

The men glanced at Reber curiously, but turned back to Silver.

“You sent for me,” said Jack.

Reber nodded.

“Yeah, I sent for yuh, Silver. Slim, will you get a chair for Mr.
Silver?”

Slim Patterson started to get up, but Silver halted him.

“I’ll stand up,” he said slowly, smiling again. “Since when did the
Reber outfits start havin’ squaws at their council?”

June straightened in her chair, her eyes flashing. Silver’s laugh was
almost an insult. Reber did not look at her. McLeese grinned in evident
enjoyment.

“Silver,” said Reber firmly, “you’re deliberately tryin’ to antagonize
us, but I’ll overlook it. I asked you here tonight to make you a
proposition. Will you go to work for me as a foreman on one of my
ranches?”

It was like a bomb-shell exploding in the room. The idea of offering
Jack Silver a position as foreman! The men wondered whether Reber was
losing his mind. Even Silver laughed.

“Make me a foreman?” said Silver. “What’s the idea, Reber?”

“That’s my business, Silver. I’m makin’ you that offer.”

Silver’s eyes swept the faces of the five foremen.

“Which ranch?” he asked smiling.

“Any one you’ll take.”

Silver’s amused glance came back to June.

“Which one is the squaw goin’ to take?”

Reber shook his head sadly.

“You don’t understand what I’m offerin’ you, Silver.”

“Yes, I do, Reber.”

Silver was not smiling now and he had shoved away from the wall.

“You’re tryin’ to buy me off--tryin’ to get me to work for you. You’re
afraid of me, Reber. I dunno why, but yuh are. Your men watch me day and
night. I’m tired of it, but not so tired that I’ll take a job with you.
You hate me because I’m half Cheyenne.

“You ran my people out of Tomahawk Valley, Reber. I know your
story--know why you hate my people. I had a little herd of cattle
started, but you and your men killed ’em off to keep me from being a
cattleman. I’ve no cause to love you. I don’t want your job. Give it to
the squaw.”

He flung his left leg across the windowsill, and before any one could
say anything further, he disappeared. Patterson sprang to his feet, and
the other men were behind him, but Reber stopped them.

“Sit down,” he ordered. “He’s done no wrong.”

“The dirty half-breed!” snarled McLeese.

June Meline was on her feet, her hands on the table, as she leaned
forward, staring at the window where Silver had disappeared. He had
taunted her, called her a squaw! But there was something romantically
wild about this tall, slim, white-toothed young man who defied them. He
had laughed at them and refused to work for Park Reber.

“The trouble is,” Reber was speaking, “yo’re all afraid of Jack Silver.”

June turned quickly to Reber.

“I’m not,” she declared.

Reber smiled at her.

“You’re not, June?”

“Not a bit. I’ll bet I could trap him.”

Several of the men laughed aloud.

“He’d steal you,” declared McLeese, and then laughed at his own
statement.

“You think you could, eh?” said Reber slowly. “I wonder.”

“Ridiculous,” declared Jackson.

Reber leaned on the table looking at June, studying her keenly. Suddenly
he struck the table with his clenched fist.

“I’ll do it!” he exclaimed. “June, beginnin’ tomorrow you’ll be a
ranch-foreman for the Diamond R.”

He looked around at the hard-bitted faces of his men, who were looking
at him, wondering whether he was in his right mind.

“What ranch?” asked McLeese.

Reber shifted his eyes to McLeese.

“The Two Bar X.”

McLeese’s ranch. He shut his jaws tightly and looked at Reber. He knew
it meant that Reber was going to fire him.

“That’s a ---- of a note!” he snorted.

“I run my ranches to suit myself, McLeese.”

Reber reached in his pocket and took out a wallet, from which he counted
out several bills. He handed them to McLeese.

“That’s yore pay up to the first of the month, McLeese.”

“And I’m through right now, eh?”

“Yeah, right now.”

“All right,” McLeese got to his feet unsteadily. “I’ve got some personal
stuff at the ranch and I’ll go get it.”

Reber nodded, and they watched McLeese leave the house. None of the
other men made any comment. For several moments after McLeese was gone
Reber stared silently at the door. Then:

“I think that’s all boys. Goodnight.”

He got to his feet and June walked from the room with him. The men
looked curiously at him, and went out.

“I need a shot of liquor,” said Patterson dryly. “Personally, I think
the old man is losin’ his mind.”

“He’s as crazy as a bedbug!” snapped Carlin. “Offers a job to Jack
Silver, and then gives it to a ---- woman! I’ll take a drink with yuh.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Park Reber wanted to go with June to the Two Bar X ranch the next day,
but the old doctor vetoed such a move on the part of his patient. Reber
was far from well. There was none of his men in from the ranches, so he
sent Jud Nelson and Sam Heard, two of his men who worked in Tomahawk, to
accompany June.

These men did not know why June was going to the ranch, nor did they ask
Reber. They loaded June and her baggage into a light wagon, kicked off
the brake and drove out of town. It was nearly thirty miles to the Two
Bar X, and the roads were none too good. June occupied the back seat,
and with the rattle and lurch of the vehicle there was little
opportunity for conversation. The two men devoted themselves exclusively
to chewing tobacco and keeping the wagon on the road.

At the forks of the river, about twelve miles south of town, they saw
Slim Patterson and two of his cowboys. The road passed close to the
Half-Wheel ranchhouse. Slim waved at them, but they did not stop. They
took the right-hand road, which led to the Two Bar X. There were no
bridges, and the river crossings were almost deep enough to float the
wagon.

About three miles south of the Half-Wheel ranch they passed the mouth of
Trapper Creek, One of the men told her it was Trapper Creek, and she
knew that Jack Silver’s place was somewhere between the West Fork and
the mountains.

June was still in somewhat of a daze over her new job. She didn’t know a
thing about cattle; she knew nothing about running a ranch. But Reber
had told her merely to use her head. He was the real head of all the
ranches, and he would see that she learned the game. Not that Reber
intended keeping her at the Two Bar X. He was not crazy. But he was
willing to grasp at any straw to stop the cattle rustling. If June could
figure out a way to trap Silver it would be worth many dollars to the
Diamond R and he was going to give her a chance.

He knew the temper of his men, knew that the majority of them were
against the idea of hiring a woman. But he did feel that any of them
would support any scheme she might formulate to stop the wholesale
stealing of his cattle.

They had just passed the mouth of Trapper Creek and were traveling
through a willow patch in the river bottom, near a ford, when the driver
suddenly jerked up his team, almost throwing June off the seat. She had
a confused impression of the team’s twisting sidewise, of a man yelling
a warning, of the sound of a shot.

She flung out her right hand, grasping the back of the front seat to
steady herself. Sam Herd was sprawling forward, as if looking down over
the left front wheel, and he suddenly slid ahead limply and slithered
over the wheel to the ground.

Jud Nelson’s two hands were in the air. Two masked men had turned their
horses in close to the wagon. They were wearing empty flour sacks over
their heads, with holes cut in them for eyes. One of them looked down at
Herd.

“That’s one less for Reber,” he growled behind his mask.

The one man kept a rifle trained on Nelson, while the other dismounted,
climbed up and removed Nelson’s revolver.

June’s face was pale, but she kept her nerve when this masked man turned
to her.

“Git out of the wagon,” he ordered gruffly.

There was nothing else for her to do. These men had killed one man
already. She climbed down and he indicated his horse.

“Climb on.”

She looked at Nelson, who was looking straight ahead, his lips
compressed tightly, both hands held rigidly above his head. June could
ride. She climbed into the saddle, hampered by her skirts, and the other
bandit laughed.

“Good lookin’ squaw,” he observed.

The other man turned and walked around the wagon to where Herd’s body
lay. He picked him up, carried him to the rear of the wagon and dumped
him unceremoniously over the tailgate into the wagon-box. He came back
and motioned to Nelson.

“Turn around and drive back,” he said hoarsely. “Take all the time yuh
need. A little hurry might ruin yore health.”

“And yuh might tell old Reber that he ain’t runnin’ this valley yet a
while,” added the other. “The road from here to Tomahawk won’t be
healthy for him and his men, so they don’t need to blame us if they git
what this feller got.”

Nelson nodded. He was more than willing to get away with a whole skin.
He managed to turn the team around in the willows, and started back,
holding the team to a slow walk.

The man mounted behind June, but before they started out he blindfolded
her with a none too clean handkerchief.

Then they rode out of the river bottom, forded the river and headed into
the hills. June knew this, because the horse was climbing most of the
way. There was no conversation. The bandit guided the horse, with an arm
on each side of June. He had been drinking, but not enough to give him
more than a whisky breath.

It seemed to June that they had been riding about an hour, when the
horses fairly slid downward for considerable distance, traveled along
for a while on level ground and stopped. The men dismounted and lifted
June off the saddle, guiding her into a cabin, where they removed the
blindfold.

It was a small log cabin, crudely furnished, with a dirt floor. It
smelled musty in there. June blinked painfully as she looked around at
the two men. One of them secured a length of lariat-rope with which he
roped her tightly to a chair. He knew how to knot ropes, and when he was
finished there was no possible way for June to escape. The other man
inspected the knots and nodded his approval.

“That’s the old Injun knot,” he growled. “No squaw ever wiggled loose
from one like that.”

The other laughed.

“You’ll stay here quite a while,” he told June. “No use to yelp. There
ain’t a man within miles of here. When Jack Silver does a job, he does
it well. Park Reber can hunt and be ---- to him, but he’ll never find
yuh. We’re goin’ away, but we’ll be back tonight some time and bring
some feed for yuh.”

They turned abruptly and left the cabin, closing the door behind them.
June heard the creak of their saddles and the sound of the horses
walking away. She tried to loosen her bonds, but she soon found that
there was nothing to do but to sit and wait.

She wanted to cry, to scream for help. But she knew that it would not
help matters in the least. She was going to need all her nerve. She
wondered what Park Reber would do. What could he do, she wondered? It
might take them weeks to find her. Jack Silver had outwitted him again.

She wondered whether one of these men was Silver. Neither looked like
the man who had taunted her. They were not so tall and slim as Silver.

It was, possibly, thirty minutes after the departure of the two men when
she heard the soft _plop-plop_ of a horse’s hoofs. She listened
intently. The horse had stopped near the cabin door, and she heard a
footstep.

Suddenly the door was flung open and a man stood in the opening--a tall,
slender man. She was looking against the light and could not see his
features, but she knew it was Jack Silver.

He came slowly in and stood looking down at her.

“Reber’s squaw, eh?” he said softly.

June shut her lips tightly, refusing to reply. He walked back to the
door and looked around. Beyond him she could see his tall black horse
looking toward him. Finally he came back to her and began taking off the
ropes.

It did not take him long to unfasten her hands, and then he dropped to
his knees beside her, fumbling with the knots beneath the chair. It was
her big chance, and she had the nerve to take advantage of it.

Leaning slightly toward him she reached down and quickly whipped the
six-shooter from his holster and shoved the muzzle against his neck.
June knew guns. The hammer came to full cock from a twist of her thumb.

Jack Silver did not look up, but his hands came away from the rope. He
did not move, but waited for her to act.

“Unfasten that rope,” she ordered, and was surprized to find her voice
fairly steady.

Silver unfastened the remaining rope, and she got to her feet, backing
away from him.

“Now I’ve got you,” she said hoarsely.

“Looks thataway,” he said slowly. “I hope yuh know that trigger only
pulls about a pound.”

“I am not interested in trigger pulls, Mr. Silver.”

“Possibly not. I am.”

June picked up the loose rope with her left hand, keeping an eye on
Silver, and then motioned for him to precede her out of the cabin. He
made no objection, but his eyes were just a little curious.

June tossed him the looped end of the rope.

“Put it around your neck,” she ordered.

He shut his lips tightly and studied her intently. She had the gun at
her hip now, and the hammer was still cocked. He shrugged his shoulders
and smiled thinly.

“Single-handed lynchin’?” he asked.

June shook her head firmly.

“I’m not your judge, Jack Silver. But you’re going to guide me to the
Two Bar X ranch, you know. You’ll walk ahead with the rope around your
neck and I’ll ride your horse.”

Jack Silver laughed softly as he put the loop around his neck.

“So that’s your game, eh?” he said amusedly. “You’ve got a lot of nerve
for a woman. I never knew that pretty women had nerve. That’s how yuh
won old man Reber, eh? Pretty girl with plenty nerve. Oh, he’s worth
winnin’. He’s got nobody to leave his money to--no relatives. And he’s
got plenty money. I heard he had made you a foreman.”

Silver threw back his head and laughed.

June had a notion to yank the loop tight and choke off that laugh.

“You’ll laugh different when I get you to the Two Bar X,” she promised
him.

He sobered suddenly.

“That’s right,” he said quickly. “They don’t like me. But what I’d like
to know is what you were doing in this cabin all tied up like that?”

“How did you know I was in that cabin?” she retorted.

“I didn’t. I saw two men riding away from here, so I came to
investigate. Where most men are my enemies, I kinda look at things, yuh
know.”

“You lie!”

Silver’s eyes narrowed with sudden anger.

“You know you lie,” said June hotly. “You and your men knew I was going
to the Two Bar X today. You had them stop us, and they killed a man--Sam
Herd. You had them bring me to this place. That’s how you knew I was
here. Now I’m going to take you to the Two Bar X and turn you over to
the men. You’re responsible for the death of Sam Herd, and if Park
Reber’s men don’t hang you the law will!”

Silver turned his head away and stared off across the hills.

“Your men won’t be back for quite a while so you don’t need to look for
them,” said June. “How far is it to the Two Bar X?”

“About three miles,” said Silver slowly. “You better let the hammer down
on that gun before yuh mount. Don’t be afraid of that horse--he’s gentle
enough. Compadre! Stand still and let the squaw get on.”

June managed to get into the saddle without tangling up the rope. She
did not dare take her eyes off Silver, and she did not uncock the
revolver. June was taking no chances.

“Now you take me straight to the Two Bar X ranch,” she ordered, “and
don’t try any tricks.”

“You are a very, very smart young lady,” he said seriously. “And I am
not going to try and trick yuh.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

About the time that June and Jack Silver were leaving for the Two Bar X
ranch, a rider came through the gate of the S Bar P; a rider who swayed
down along the fork of his saddle, a limp arm hanging on each side of
the horse’s neck.

The rider was Harry O’Steen, one of Buck Priest’s men--a red-headed,
freckled cowboy; a laughing, rollicking sort of person, whose
disposition did much to keep up the morale of the S Bar P.

Buck Priest was sitting on the ranchhouse porch talking with “Rowdy”
Dow, another of his cowboys, when the horse came in. They could see at a
glance that O’Steen had been hurt, and both of them ran down to him.
They eased him to the ground and then carried him to the shade of the
porch.

“Been shot twice,” declared Rowdy. “Gawd A’mighty, he’s all shot to
strings!”

Buck Priest nodded shortly and knelt beside O’Steen, who was trying to
talk. Rowdy ran through the house and came back with a dipper of water,
which he held to O’Steen’s lips. Ken Mader and Dick Leeson, the two
other cowboys, came from the bunk-house and joined them.

“Can yuh talk, Harry?” asked Buck anxiously. “Who shot yuh?”

O’Steen struggled painfully, trying to say something. It came in a jerky
sentence--

“Rustlers--got--me--Porcupine--Creek--”

That was all. He closed his eyes, twitched slightly. Buck got to his
feet, his old face twisted.

“Uh-huh,” he said softly. “Rustlers got him on Porcupine Creek, boys.
Help me carry him in the house. That’s more of Park Reber’s work.”

They placed the body of O’Steen on a cot and covered it up with a
bright-colored blanket.

“Saddle up,” ordered Priest. “Take yore rifles along. We’re goin’ to
Tomahawk and talk to Park Reber with the only language he understands.
He’s goin’ to pay for killin’ O’Steen.”

“That’s the talk,” said Rowdy. “We’ll wipe his town off the map.”

“Four men may not be able to do that, Rowdy,” said Buck Priest wearily,
“but we’ll do what we can.”

Ten minutes later the four men galloped from the S Bar P, heading for
Tomahawk town. The sun was almost down, and they wanted to get there
before dark. About two miles from the ranch the road intersected with
the main road, and as the four riders swept around the point of a hill
they saw a team and light wagon coming from the south.

They were close enough to see that the driver was Nelson, one of Reber’s
men. They drew rein and waited for the wagon to reach them. Priest swung
his horse across the road ahead of the team, forcing them to stop.

“Hyah, Nelson,” said Priest coldly.

“Howdy, gentlemen,” nodded Nelson. “I’m sure glad to see somebody. I
stopped at the Half-Wheel, but there wasn’t nobody at home. Me and Sam
Herd was takin’ that girl to the Two Bar X and we got held up. Sam tried
to draw a gun, and they killed him. And they put the girl on a horse and
took her away. Sam’s in the back of the wagon.”

Rowdy spurred his horse around the wagon and looked in.

“He’s here all right, Buck,” he said.

“Where’d this all happen?”

“Near the mouth of Trapper. Down in them willers, jist before yuh reach
the ford. Two men, Priest. They had sacks over their heads.”

Priest backed his horse off the road and motioned for Nelson to drive
on.

“Ain’t we goin’?” asked Rowdy.

Buck Priest watched the wagon disappear up the road.

“I don’t know what to make of it,” he said. “Sam Herd was one of Park
Reber’s trusted men. And they stole that girl, eh? That’s funny. We’re
goin’ back home, boys. No use goin’ off half-cocked, I reckon. We’ll
pack up some grub and blankets and swing in on the Porcupine. It must
have been kinda late when O’Steen was shot, and the rustlers can’t move
cattle much after dark.”

They turned and rode back to the ranch.

                   *       *       *       *       *

In the meantime Nelson lost no time in driving his jaded horses to
Tomahawk town. It was dark when he arrived, and he went straight to
Reber’s house, where he found Reber with the old doctor. Nelson blurted
out his story as quickly as possible. He helped the doctor carry Herd’s
body into the house, and the doctor found that Herd had been killed
almost instantly.

Reber, still weak from his wound, sat down in a chair and swore
impotently.

“Just for that I’ll wipe Buck Priest and Jack Silver off the map,” he
declared bitterly. “You say you met Priest and his men? They circled
back to see if you got help at the Half-Wheel. Oh, I know Buck Priest!”

“Only one of ’em looked in at the body,” said Nelson.

“They knew it was there. Oh, I’ll make Priest pay. It was either Priest
or Silver--perhaps both. They work together. Nelson, go to the Tomahawk
and see if any of my men are in from the ranches. Bring them here to me.
Wait! Send them here. You get a horse and ride for the Half-Wheel. Don’t
spare the horse. Tell Slim Patterson what happened. Then you go to the
Circle S and tell Jim Carlin to bring his outfit to the Half-Wheel and
to send a man to the Lightnin’ for Jackson and his crew. We’ll all meet
at the Half-Wheel.”

Nelson ran from the house, and the old doctor turned to Reber.

“You’ll not ride tonight,” he said firmly.

“You try to stop me, Doc.”

“Hm-m-m-m! You’re a fool, Park. That wound isn’t healed up. You’ll wreck
your health, I tell you.”

“Bah! Wreck my health! I’m goin’ out to find that girl and to whip all
this scum out of the valley. I’ve stood all I’ll ever stand from Priest
and Silver.”

“It was a foolish thing, that sending of a woman,” said the old doctor.
He had known Park Reber for years, and felt privileged to speak his
mind.

“Mebbe,” said Reber shortly. “Mebbe not. She’s smart, Doc. I wish she
was my daughter. If things had turned out different I might have had a
girl or a boy of about her age.”

“Yes, that’s true.”

“And she spoiled Buck Priest’s shot,” said Reber. “He’s got no love for
her. I wonder where these men would take her? Not to any known place,
that’s a cinch. She’s their ace in the hole. I’d like to get my two
hands around Buck Priest’s throat and choke the truth from him. Oh, he
hates me, Doc!

“When he looks at me with his lop-sided grin, I feel that he’s gloating
over somethin’.”

“Be calm,” advised the doctor. “You’ll work yourself into a fever. Did
any doctor ever have such a patient to contend with? That meeting almost
ruined everything; and now you insist on getting excited and riding
helter-skelter over the hills in the dark! I ought to tie you down.”

“Here come some of my men,” said Reber. “Now you keep your tongue out of
it, Doc. I’m goin’, if I have to go on a stretcher.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

It was almost dark when Jack Silver led the way to the Two Bar X. There
were no lights in the ranchhouse. June dismounted and forced Jack to
knock on the door. But there was no answer to his knock. The door was
unlocked. Without any orders from June, Jack lighted the big lamp in the
main room.

“Where is everybody?” wondered June. “Is this the Two Bar X?”

“It’s the Two Bar X all right,” said Jack.

His heels were sore from the long walk in high-heeled boots and he
limped painfully.

June pointed at a door across the room.

“Open that,” she ordered.

Jack limped over and opened it.

It was a windowless inside room, evidently used as a bedroom by some one
who cared little for ventilation. There was a small lamp on the table,
and June ordered Jack to light it. She told him to remove the rope, and
then she backed into the main room, closing the door behind her.

At some time the room must have been used for storage purposes, because
there was a hasp and staple fastener. June quickly locked the door,
after which she sat down in a chair and drew the first calm breath she
had taken since Jack Silver had entered the deserted cabin. There was no
way for him to get out of that room. She took a small lamp and went on a
tour of investigation. The kitchen was fairly clean and there was plenty
of food.

She cooked a meal for herself, but was afraid to take any of it to
Silver. She had him under lock and intended keeping him. She felt sure
that the men of the Two Bar X would be coming back soon. Perhaps, she
thought, they heard of what happened to her and were searching for her.

And what a surprize it would be for them to come back and find her
there, and to find Jack Silver a prisoner. She washed the dishes and
went back to the main room. It was very quiet. A new moon was peeping
over the crest of the Tomahawk range, and she heard the distant howling
of a coyote.

She put Jack Silver’s gun on the table beside her and sat down to look
at some old magazines. Suddenly she heard the muffled tread of horses
walking and thought it was the boys of the ranch coming home. She ran to
a front window and looked out, but could see no one.

For several minutes she stood at the window, but the half-light was
baffling. She went back and sat down, after deciding that it had been
some loose horses. But something made her feel that she was being
watched. Perhaps it was sort of sixth sense.

She found herself unable to read. The two dull, uncurtained windows
seemed to stare at her like a pair of eyes. Why didn’t they curtain
their windows, she wondered? There were noises, too--queer noises.

Suddenly there came the scrape of leather sole on the porch, and the
door was flung open. June jerked forward, her hand on the big gun.

Two men stepped inside, looking queerly at her. It was McLeese, the
deposed foreman, and Chuck Bell, a big, raw-boned, square-faced cowboy
who worked for the Two Bar X. McLeese glanced at the hand and gun on the
table.

“Yuh got here, eh?” he said easily. “That’s fine. I was kinda late
gettin’ here for my stuff. Where’s all the boys?”

“I don’t know,” said June. “I haven’t been here long.”

“Uh-huh,” nodded McLeese. “I suppose they’re late gettin’ in. Well, I’ll
gather up my stuff and head back for town. Did yuh come out alone?”

“Two men brought me,” said June.

She didn’t want to tell McLeese anything, because she didn’t trust him.

“And went back and left yuh alone, eh? Dirty trick. This is a lonesome
place for a girl, Miss Meline. If yuh want us to, we’ll stay until the
boys come back.”

“No, I’m all right,” said June. “I’m not afraid.”

“Uh-huh.”

McLeese went past her and entered the kitchen, where she heard him
working around. Chuck Bell came over near the table and sat down in a
chair. He began rolling a smoke. June was entirely disarmed. She took
her hand away from the gun and picked up a magazine.

As quick as a flash Bell jerked sidewise out of his chair and secured
the gun. He leered at June as he shoved the gun inside the waist-band of
his overalls.

“All set, Mac,” he called. McLeese came from the kitchen, glanced
quickly toward the table and laughed throatily.

“That’s better than knockin’ her on the head,” he said. “By golly, she
had me worried for a minute. I don’t _sabe_ it yet, but that don’t worry
me much. Get a rope, Bell.”

Bell walked back to the front door and went out, while McLeese leaned
against the table and leered at June.

“Smart little lady, eh? Made a awful hit with Old Man Reber, didn’t yuh?
Came out here to catch Jack Silver!”

McLeese laughed scornfully. Bell came in with the rope and gave it to
McLeese, who lost no time in tying June’s hands and feet securely.

“Find me a handkerchief or a rag,” he said. “We’d better gag her. Yuh
never can tell who might come along. The road is guarded and all that,
but we’ll jist play safe.”

Bell produced a dirty bandanna handkerchief.

“Why don’tcha find out how much she knows, Mac?” he asked.

“Whatsa use? Anyway, we’ve got to get goin’, Chuck. Old Man Reber won’t
stop to ask many questions.”

McLeese twisted the handkerchief, forced June’s teeth apart and tied the
gag. As he was finishing the job, Bell examined the gun he had taken
from her. Suddenly he cried out:

“This is Jack Silver’s gun!”

“What’re yuh talkin’ about?” asked McLeese.

“I tell yuh it is, Mac! There’s the S carved on the bottom of the
handle. I’ve seen it lots of times. Where do you suppose she got it?”

McLeese looked at June, who was none too comfortable with the gag
between her teeth.

“Take that rag out and let her talk,” suggested Bell, but McLeese shook
his head.

“She’d lie about it, anyway.”

He indicated the closed door, where June had locked Silver.

“We’ll put her in there, Chuck. Grab her feet.”

McLeese grasping her by the shoulders and Chuck Bell taking her feet,
they carried her over to the door.

McLeese did not seem to think it strange that the hasp was fastened in
place. He held June with one arm while he unfastened it. He grasped her
again with both hands and kicked the door open.

And as the door flew open, something in the nature of a cyclone seemed
to strike them. Jack Silver sprang from inside the room, striking Chuck
Bell with his shoulder.

June’s feet struck the floor heavily, and McLeese jerked away, letting
her fall to the floor as Chuck Bell went spinning across the room. Jack
went to his hands and knees, but was up like a flash and into the
startled McLeese before he could draw a gun.

He swung a right hand at McLeese’s jaw, but the blow was too high. It
caught McLeese on the bridge of the nose and knocked him to his haunches
against the wall. Silver turned quickly to meet the rush of Chuck Bell,
and they grappled. It was evident that Bell was so dizzy from his
spinning that he forgot to draw a gun; but not so McLeese. He sagged
back, his broken nose painting his face with gore, and whipped out his
gun and fired upward at Silver.

The report of the gun was echoed by a crash of glass, and the room was
plunged in darkness. McLeese’s bullet had smashed the lamp, missing Jack
Silver’s ear by a fraction of an inch.

Silver whirled Bell around, broke his hold and flung him toward McLeese.
It was evident that Bell went down on top of McLeese, and Silver feared
for the safety of June, who was only a few feet from McLeese.

He stepped in and tried to drag her out of the mélée, but at that moment
one of the men crashed into him, knocking him off his feet. He went
rolling against the table, and a man fell over him. Silver struggled to
his feet and met the rush of one of them.

In that darkness it was impossible for him to see which one it was. They
crashed to the floor, fighting like a pair of animals, but Jack managed
to tear himself away and slid along the floor.

The front door opened, and for a moment he could see the silhouette of a
man, etched blackly against the moonlight.

Came the crashing report of a revolver in the room, and the silhouette
sagged down heavily.

The flash of the gun had blinded Silver, and the powder smoke choked
him. One of these men had shot the other, thinking it was Jack Silver.
He heard this man crawling across the floor, but did not try to stop
him. Then he heard him run through the kitchen, slam the door shut and
go running across the yard.

Silver ran to the front door. The man who had left the house mounted his
horse and spurred toward the gate. Silver turned the man over in the
doorway, and the white face and staring eyes of McLeese looked up at
him. He found McLeese’s gun where he had dropped it on the porch, and
went back in the house. He secured the lamp in the kitchen, lighted it
and went into the main room.

June was still lying where they had dropped her. Silver closed the front
door and came back to her. It was a simple task for him to take the gag
and ropes off her and help her to a chair, where she sagged wearily. The
gag had cut her lips, and there was blood on her wrists, cut by the
ropes.

Silver said nothing. His face was bruised and one sleeve of his shirt
was almost torn off. June stared at him, panting nervously, as he calmly
rolled a cigaret with steady fingers.

“Why don’t you say something?” she asked, almost hysterically.

He looked at her, a half-smile on his lips.

“I dunno,” he said simply. “Don’t seem to be much to say.”

“Well, what is it all about? Oh, why don’t you get excited? You sit
there and roll a cigaret just as though nothing had happened. Who--which
one did you shoot?”

“I didn’t shoot,” he said slowly. “Bell shot McLeese. Mebbe he thought
it was me. He didn’t have any cause to shoot Mac, that I know about. The
door over there was too thick for me to hear much that was said, and I’m
wonderin’ why they had you tied up.”

June shook her head. She didn’t know.

“Didn’t they tell yuh why?”

“Oh, I don’t know what they talked about. Everything is so mixed up.”

“Yeah, that’s right.”

He lighted his cigaret and inhaled deeply.

“It seems to me,” he said smiling quietly, “that you’ve kinda had a hard
time gettin’ started on yore new job.”

“Why did you have me kidnaped?” she asked.

“Me? Lord love yuh, I never did.”

“I’d like to believe you, but--”

“Why should I?”

“Well, I--I--you hate Park Reber.”

“Yo’re not Park Reber.”

“I--I work for him.”

“Lotsa folks work for him, ma’am, and I never kidnaped any of them.”

June bit her lip and studied Jack Silver, who looked at her frankly. He
did not look like a man who would kidnap a woman. There was nothing of
the sneak about him.

“What do you do for a living?” she asked bluntly.

“Trappin’, mostly. I had a small herd of cattle a few years ago, but
Park Reber’s men killed ’em off. He didn’t want me to get a start. In
the winter I trap from here over into the Clear Valley side of the
range. I make a good livin’.”

“What do you do with the cattle you steal from Park Reber?”

It was a very blunt question. Jack Silver’s eyes did not shift, but
narrowed slightly, and for several moments he did not speak. Then--

“I’ve never stolen a cow from Park Reber.”

“That doesn’t check up with what I’ve heard, Mr. Silver.”

“Probably not, ma’am, but it doesn’t matter. I’ve eaten Diamond R beef.
He killed off my cattle, didn’t he? When I needed a piece of beef real
bad, I took it. Reber hates me. He says he hates me because I steal his
cattle, but he’s a liar.”

“Is it because he wants all the valley?”

“No, it’s because I’ve got Cheyenne blood in me. You’ve heard his
story?”

“About the Indians killing his wife?”

“Stealin’ her, ma’am. Nobody knows how she died--if she did die.”

“I’m sorry,” said June simply.

“About my blood?” Silver smiled bitterly. “I can’t help it.”

He got to his feet and walked to a window and he looked out. Finally he
came back and sat down.

“I don’t see where your blood would make any difference,” said June.

“Don’t yuh? Yo’re a white woman; would you marry a half-breed?”

“Why, I--I never thought of that.”

“You wouldn’t. Perhaps there are white women who would, but they’d not
be the kind I’d want. I don’t want to marry an Injun girl--so there yuh
are. I’m only half good enough to marry a white woman, and I’ve got too
much white blood to marry an Indian. Everybody hates a breed. Oh, yes
they do. Even the Injuns hate a breed.

“Do yuh know what they say about a half-breed? They say he inherits the
vices of both sides and the virtues of neither. Mebbe that’s right.”

“What about Buck Priest--did Reber steal his cattle?”

“I think so, ma’am. But this ain’t lettin’ us in on the secret of
things. Why do yuh suppose McLeese and Bell tied you up. Who kidnapped
yuh, and what was their object? I’m gettin’ kinda anxious. Bell rode
away, and he might come back in force. I’d hate to have yuh penned in
here with me if Reber’s men try to catch me. I’ve got my own gun and the
one McLeese had. If Reber found me here with you he’d hang
me--especially if he found McLeese dead on the porch.”

“Then you’d better go away,” said June. “I can get along all right, I
guess.”

“I guess yuh can’t. After them fellers tied yuh up and tried to lock yuh
in that room? We’ll find a horse to ride and I’ll take yuh over to my
place. At least you’ll be safe over there.”

June shook her head quickly.

“No, I’ll stay here.”

“Then I’ll stay with yuh.”

“And get hung for being here?”

“Mebbe. I’d sure hate myself all the rest of my life if I left yuh here
alone and anythin’ happened to yuh.”

“Why would you care?”

“I’m half white.”

“And you’d do this, even after I forced you to lead me here with a rope
around your neck.”

“That wasn’t anythin’. You didn’t pull it tight,” he smiled at her and
went to the front door.

“We’ve got to kinda make this place bull-tight,” he said. “Yore name’s
June, ain’t it? I heard it was. I’ll call yuh June. It’s easier to say
than ma’am. My name’s Jack. Prob’ly be mud before mornin’.”

“Mr. Reber will come looking for me,” said June.

“Yea-a-ah, and he’ll find me,” laughed Jack. “But I’ve got a hunch that
Mr. Reber is goin’ to have a hard time gettin’ here.”

“They spoke about the road being guarded. Did they mean against Mr.
Reber?”

“Might be. We’ll just wait and see what happens.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Buck Priest and his men went back to the ranch and packed two horses
with blankets and enough food to last them several days. It was about
dark when they headed southeast toward the Porcupine hills. Priest’s
idea was to travel along the Porcupine for a way and then turn south
toward the Circle S.

As far as he knew there had been no misbranding of cattle. Therefore he
was of the opinion that the rustlers were moving a bunch of his stock
toward the West Fork pass. If Park Reber were stealing cattle, that was
the pass he would take them through to Clear Valley.

There was just enough moonlight to enable them to see to travel by. Buck
hoped to find the rustler’s camp, but after traveling far along the
Porcupine he decided to head toward the Half-Wheel, which was almost due
west of where they were now. He reasoned that if the rustlers knew that
O’Steen had escaped wounded they would possibly drop the herd and head
for the Half-Wheel.

In the meantime Park Reber had gathered a dozen riders and was also
heading down the valley. Nelson had told him what the two masked men had
said about the road’s being dangerous, and Reber was not the man not to
heed a warning. He left the road a short distance out of Tomahawk and
took to the open hills where there would be no danger of an ambush.

“We’ll head straight toward Jack Silver’s place,” he told his men. “Buck
Priest is in with Silver on this deal, that’s a cinch, so there’s no use
going to his place.”

“And if it’s a scheme to run a lot of cattle out of the valley they’ll
use the Trapper Creek pass,” declared Nelson. “I’d like to notch my
sight on the jasper that killed old Sam Herd.”

“There’ll be plenty of chances before this time tomorrow night,” said
Reber. “I’ll clean this valley of every rustler or quit the cow business
myself.”

The men knew the hills well, and they were able to make good time. Reber
was suffering considerably with his shoulder, but he gritted his teeth
and led the way.

There were no lights showing at the Half-Wheel when Buck Priest led his
men down to the road past the ranch. For quite a while they sat on their
horses at a little distance from the ranchhouse, debating just what to
do.

“We’ll go on,” decided Buck Priest. “Before daylight we can be in the
West Fork pass, and if they run those cows into that pass we’ll show the
dirty thieves a merry time.”

“Jist lemme get a sight of the fellers that leaded up O’Steen,” said
Rowdy. “I’m shore honin’ for a chance at ’em.”

“Daylight will tell the tale,” said Priest. “They’ll try and run ’em
through early in the mornin’. I wouldn’t be surprized to find the hills
around the Two Bar X full of my cows.”

They were about two miles south of the Half-Wheel, traveling along the
road through a narrow defile in the heavy brush, when a rifle spat fire
almost in front of them. It was so sudden and unexpected that the four
riders whirled in a mass, trying to control their horses. From several
places in the brush came orange-colored flashes, followed by the angry
spat of rifle shots. Buck Priest’s horse went down in a heap, pinning
Buck to the ground.

Ken Mader’s horse fell, but Ken flung himself free and began shooting
from the ground. For several moments it was a nightmare of rearing,
kicking horses and sporadic flashing of rifle and revolver shots. Mader
went down on his face.

Rowdy’s horse was shot from under him, but he managed to regain his feet
and mount behind Dick Leesom and spur the frightened horse into a gallop
back up the road. Dick had been shot through the side and was unable to
control his horse or to shoot a gun.

A flurry of rifle shots followed them, but the bullets buzzed far over
their heads.

Not one of the bushwhackers came in sight. As far as they were concerned
they never existed. Buck Priest had dropped flat on his back to escape
the hail of lead. His leg was pinned beneath his dead horse, and it was
impossible for him to extricate it. He could see the white face of Ken
Mader in the moonlight, and he cursed Park Reber and his men.

He tried to draw his leg loose from beneath the horse, but the pain
forced him to desist. He was sure the leg was broken. He swore bitterly,
feeling sure that they had run into the rustler’s ambush.

Back in the hills, only a mile away from the road, were Park Reber and
his men. They had heard the shooting, but the echoes were so confusing
that none of them could tell where the shooting was taking place.

“Sounded like a battle all right,” declared Reber. “We’d better head for
the road, I think. Unless I’m mistaken, that’s where the shooting came
from.”

They traveled due east, striking the road a few hundred yards north of
where the ambush had been laid. They did not see Leesom and Dow, who had
gone past the spot, and were heading north. But they did find Dow’s hat
in the road. It was a black Stetson, fairly new, but not marked with
name or initial.

“Somebody goin’ plenty fast,” said one of the men. “That’s hat’s too
good for a puncher to throw it away.”

“No way to tell which way he was goin’,” drawled a cowboy.

“We’ll go south and take a chance,” said Reber. And then they found Buck
Priest, pinned down by his dead horse, and Ken Mader lying dead beside
his dead horse. The men dismounted. Buck Priest recognized them and spat
a curse at Park Reber.

“Got yuh, eh?” grunted Reber.

“Mader’s dead,” said one of the men.

Reber gave them orders to lift the horse off Priest’s leg.

“Well, you’ve got me, Reber,” said Priest. “My leg’s busted. I hope
yo’re satisfied, you dirty cow thief!”

“I will be satisfied, yuh can bet on that,” said Reber. “Yo’re all
through in this valley, Buck Priest--you and yore S Bar P outfit. When I
get my hands on Jack Silver I’ve made a clean sweep.”

“When yuh do,” gritted Priest.

“Oh, I will,” rasped Reber. “I’ve started out to clean up this valley.”

“Clean! It’ll never be clean as long as _you_ live. You killed O’Steen
today--yore men did. He saw yuh stealin’ my cows. And yuh--oh what’s the
use? You’ve got the best hand, Reber. Go ahead and do what yuh want to.”

“I never killed O’Steen,” denied Reber.

“Yore men did.”

“Did they? I didn’t know it. Where’s June Meline?”

“That female fiddler?”

“Yeah, that female fiddler! Where is she?”

“I heard somebody stole her.”

“Oh, yuh did, eh? I reckon yuh didn’t need to _hear_ it. Some of you
boys lift him on a horse. We’ll take him along with us and settle his
case at the Two Bar X.”

They lifted Buck Priest to a saddle, and he cursed them for hurting his
broken leg. Perhaps they were none too gentle.

“Want to rope him on, Park?” asked one of the men.

“What for? If he falls off he can’t run away, can he?”

Two of the cowboys rode double and one of them led Buck Priest’s horse.
The jolting of the horse was misery to Priest, but he clamped his jaws
tightly and held all his weight on his right stirrup.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The first faint touch of dawn streaked the old pole corrals and the
stables of the Two Bar X. Huddled in a chair beside the table in the
main room sat June Meline, wrapped in a blanket, asleep. At one of the
front windows stood Jack Silver. He had watched all night for the return
of Bell, who he was sure would come back. The body of McLeese still lay
where it fell.

He turned his head and saw June looking at him. She had slept for
several hours.

“How are yuh feelin’, June?” he asked.

“All right, Jack. Oh, I must have slept a long time. Why, it’s morning!”

“Just about. We’ll get some breakfast and then I’ll rope a couple of
horses. I dunno what became of my horse, but I think they took him away.
We’re goin’ back to Tomahawk, June. Somethin’ is wrong out here.”

She nodded and got up from her chair.

“I’ll get the breakfast, Jack. I can cook.”

“I’ll betcha,” he smiled. “Yo’re quite a woman, June. I don’t blame
Reber for likin’ yuh. I never knew that women had the nerve you’ve got.
After what you went through since yuh left Tomahawk yesterday, it’s a
wonder you’ve got any nerve left.”

“But I’ve been frightened,” confessed June. “If you had said ‘boo!’ to
me yesterday I’d have dropped your gun.”

“Mebbe not,” said Jack smiling. “That gun is too easy on the trigger to
take any chances. I might have just booed a bullet into my nervous
system.”

Jack laughed and turned back to the window, leaning forward tensely.
There were cattle drifting past the rear of the corrals and sheds--a
compact mass of moving animals heading northwest toward the West Fork
pass. Jack stepped to the door and opened it enough to give him a
farther view down the valley. As far as he could see down the valley
there were cattle surging ahead like a brown wave.

Jack shut the door quickly. A man had slipped through the corral-fence
at the corner of a shed, a man carrying a rifle in his hand.

“What is it, Jack?” asked June anxiously.

“The big steal!” he exclaimed. “I know the answer now, June. Reber’s own
men are stealing from him--taking a big herd over the West Fork pass.
That’s why they stole yuh, don’t yuh see? They didn’t want anybody here
to see ’em. That’s why there wasn’t anybody here, June.

“That’s why they’ve blocked the road against Reber. McLeese had this
framed before Reber fired him. God knows how many of Reber’s men are in
on it. They’re tryin’ to send ’em over the pass before anybody can get
out here to catch ’em.”

“But--but they know we’re here,” panted June.

“They sure do,” said Jack bitterly. “Keep out of line with the windows.
I’ve got the doors fastened and I’ve got two guns. But our best chance
is to lay low. We know too much for them to let us get out alive, June.
Their plans were upset when Reber sent you out here.”

“But won’t they be in such a hurry to get the cattle over the pass that
they’ll leave us alone?”

June’s answer came in the form of a bullet, which smashed out a pane of
glass and thudded into the rear wall of the room. Jack drew June back
against the wall, and they edged their way to the front of the room.

“Flat on the floor under the windows,” said Jack. “They’ll not shoot
that low.”

A shower of glass sprayed over them when a bullet tore through the
window casing.

“Shootin’ wild,” said Jack easily. “Listen to the cattle.”

They could hear the dull rumble of the moving herd, the soft bawling of
calves.

“They’re movin’ a mighty big herd,” said Jack. “It sure will hit Park
Reber hard.”

“You ought to be glad,” said June wearily.

“I wonder if I am? If it was anybody but his own men I might.”

“You believe in loyalty, Jack?”

“If yuh mean trustin’ a friend or an employee--yes.”

“You’ve been to school?”

Jack nodded shortly.

“Six years, June--in Cheyenne.”

“Who sent you there?”

“I don’t know. I don’t even know who paid for it. I was sent from the
reservation when I was about eight years old. I never went back there,
June. I was fourteen when I came here. I worked for Buck Priest quite a
while, and then I built me a place on Trapper Creek. I was goin’ to be a
cowman, and I had a good start, but Park Reber’s men killed off my
cattle. I’ve been in the valley eleven years.”

“You are twenty-five years old, Jack?”

“I think so.”

“Who was your father?”

He looked queerly at her. Another bullet smashed through the kitchen
window and ricocheted off the stove.

“I don’t know who he was,” said Jack. He ran his fingers along the
barrel of his six-shooter. “No one would tell me after I came back from
school. They said I was the son of a squaw-man.”

Jack sat up with his shoulders against the corner of the room. Some one
had come on the porch and was near the door. Jack leaned sidewise and
sent a bullet angling through the center panel. His shot was echoed by a
yelp and a curse.

“They’re still in there!” yelled a voice.

Bullets came through the door about two feet above the floor and more
came through the smashed windows. The opposite wall of the room was
beginning to show signs of wear. A bullet smashed the lamp, causing a
small shower of kerosene.

Some one was trying to open the kitchen door. Jack snaked along the wall
to the kitchen entrance and sent a bullet through the door just above
the knob. He heard a sharp cry and turned to see June, one hand across
her face. She had tried to follow him.

He rolled back to her and drew her back under the window. A bullet had
come through just below the sill, and had scored her temple just enough
to break the skin and raise a blue welt. She was dazed, bewildered. She
tried to get to her feet, but Jack pulled her down.

“You’re all right, June,” he told her. “It’s not serious. Stay down,
girl!”

He held to her with one hand. There was smoke drifting in through the
broken window--too much smoke to be caused by the shooting. Jack sniffed
at it.

Wood smoke! They had fired the ranchhouse!

He could hear the flames crackling now, and the smoke was getting
heavier. June was recovering, but it seemed that the injury had broken
her nerve. She began crying softly and Jack patted her on the arm.

“It’s all right, June,” he told her. “Don’t cry. You’ve got to hang on
to yore nerve, girl. They’ve set the house on fire. It’s do or die, I
guess. We can’t stay here and burn to death.”

The wall was getting hot. There was a little breeze, and the seasoned
old building was as dry as tinder. June blinked at him through her
tears. She understood what he was saying.

“We’ll crawl to the kitchen door,” he told her. “I’ll open the door and
jump out. Mebbe I can drive ’em back so you can get away. It’s our only
chance. They might let yuh go and figure on catchin’ yuh. I’ll stop ’em
as long as I can, June.”

They slid along the wall to the kitchen.

The shooting had stopped. Jack knew they were merely waiting for them to
try to make a break. Beside the door they stopped and Jack held out his
hand to her.

“Good-by, June. You stay here until I tell yuh when to come out--if I
last that long.”

“Good-by, Jack.” June’s face was white and drawn. “I forced you into
this. If it hadn’t been for me you’d be free.”

“Tha’s all right; it was a mistake, June. It’s all in the game. I reckon
I’d forgive you for anythin’. Good-by.”

He raised up from his haunches, grasped the door with his left hand and
gave it a jerk. It stuck fast. He dropped the gun in his holster and
grasped the door with both hands but it refused to open.

“Stay here, June,” he panted, dropping to his knees and crawled back to
the front door.

The room was full of smoke now.

He went to the door, got to his feet and tried to open it. He could
force it open about two inches--enough to see that a rope ran from the
knob to a porch-post.

A bullet smashed through the paneling and raked him along the forearm.
He dropped to his knees, coughing from the smoke, and crawled back to
June. His left forearm and hand were covered with blood.

“They’ve locked us in, June,” he said. “If we try to get through a
window they’ll riddle us.”

June merely stared at him, her mind refusing to work.

“You mean, we can’t get out--we’ve got to burn?”

Jack was staring at a spot in the center of the floor. There was a metal
ring sunk in the floor, and beyond it were two hinges--the roothouse
trap-door.

He sprawled over and dug the ring loose. With a heave he opened the
trap, and the odor of musty old vegetables filled the room. An old
ladder led down to the bottom. June went down first. There was more
shooting, but they could not hear the bullets now.

Jack left the trap open to give them a little light. The roothouse was
about six feet deep and of about the width of the kitchen. It was cool
down there, and no smoke penetrated. They took deep breaths to rid their
lungs of the smoke.

On one side was an accumulation of old boxes and barrels. Jack lighted a
match and almost shouted with joy. Behind those old boxes and barrels
was a stairway which led to an outside roothouse door.

He flung the boxes aside, clearing the disused stairway, a prayer in his
heart that the door might not be nailed down. They could hear the
snapping of the flames now, the hoarse shouts of men, the crackle of
guns.

Jack put his shoulder against the old slanting door and lifted enough to
find that it was not fastened down.

“We’ll beat ’em yet, June,” he panted. “The fire seems to be mostly at
the front of the house yet. We can stay here for a few minutes.”

June was swaying sidewise, and before Jack could spring to her
assistance she had fainted. He lifted her up and held her in his arms.
In falling she had struck her head against the corner of a box, cutting
it badly.

He tore the muffler from around his neck and bound it around her head.
Then he picked her up in his arms and staggered up the old steps, where
he hunched in as low as possible, bracing his right shoulder against the
door.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Park Reber did not lead his men straight for the Two Bar X, but took the
left-hand road and headed for the Circle S, where he decided to pick up
Jim Carlin and his men. He intended sending one man from there to the
Lightning to get the assistance of Nort Jackson and his crew. Reber was
going to have enough men to comb every inch of the country.

It was nearing daylight when they rode into the Circle S. The ranch was
deserted.

“Mebbe they’re chasin’ rustlers already,” said one of the men.

“More likely out doin’ a little rustlin’,” said Buck Priest grimly. His
face was the color of ashes, his left leg dangling uselessly from
outside the stirrup. The old man was living on his nerve now. Park Reber
scowled at him, but said nothing in reply to Priest’s sarcasm.

“Shall we go to the Lightnin’?” asked a cowboy.

“No,” said Reber shortly, and headed for the Two Bar X.

The men were tired, sleepy, hungry; they were willing to go anywhere to
stop for a while. They did not go back to the road, but cut across the
hills. Daylight came swiftly, and the sun was painting the tops of the
hills when they struck the road about a mile below the Two Bar X.

And here the road was a mass of cow tracks. Reber leaned forward in his
saddle, pointing at them.

“The trail of the rustlers,” he said. “They’re headin’ for the West Fork
pass.”

“Listen!” Nelson threw up his hand.

From far up the road they could hear the rattle of rifle shots.

“My ----!” exclaimed Reber. “The boys of the Two Bar X are tryin’ to
stop ’em! Come on!”

Some one lashed Buck Priest’s horse across the rump with a rope, and the
animal almost unseated the suffering old man. He gritted his teeth and
rode along with them. The men were riding with rifles in their hands
now.

About three hundred yards short of the Two Bar X, the road topped an
elevation around the point of a hill and, as they swung around this
point, Park Reber, riding at the head of his men, drew rein.

The whole front end of the ranchhouse was enveloped in flames, and
beyond the burning house the hills were full of cattle. They saw a man
running away from the corrals. He mounted a horse and headed for the
cattle.

A rifle bullet struck the ground in front of Reber’s horse and buzzed
angrily away. The riders separated like a covey of quail. Another bullet
thudded against a horse, and its rider flung himself free as the horse
reared up and fell backward.

Cowboys were dismounting as swiftly as possible, letting their horses
go; then they ran ahead, taking advantage of every bit of cover. Rifles
began to crack as the Reber men searched the corrals and sheds with
bullets.

Mounted men began riding from behind the stable, heading toward the
cattle.

“Get yore horses!” yelled Reber. “They’re headin’ for the pass.”

The men continued to shoot at the retreating cowboys. One of them
pitched sidewise off his horse, and his horse came back toward the
stable. Reber’s men mounted swiftly and swept down on the ranch.

A man ran from the stable-door, trying to get around the corner, but a
hail of bullets cut him down. He went flat on his side, rolled over and
fired one shot in return. Park Reber jerked back in his saddle and slid
to the ground.

At that same moment one of the men yelled warningly. The outside
roothouse door was flung open and out came Jack Silver, carrying June
Meline across one arm. He staggered, flung up his right hand to shoot at
them, but tripped over an old water-bucket and fell flat.

Several cowboys threw themselves upon him before he could get up, and
held him tightly. They yanked him to his feet, and others took charge of
June.

“Well, yuh got me, I guess,” panted Jack.

“I guess we have!” snorted a cowboy. “Yo’re all through, you dirty
half-breed.”

Jack shut his lips tightly.

“Reber’s been hit hard,” said one of the men. “That feller down at the
stable got him.”

They led Jack around to where Reber was lying. But Jack paid no
attention to Reber; he was staring at old Buck Priest, who was barely
able to sit in his saddle.

Park Reber had the men lift him to a sitting position. He looked at Jack
Silver closely.

“I swore I’d get you, Silver,” he said. “I started out last night to
clean out the valley. I don’t know how badly I’m hurt, but it’s bad
enough. But you’ve stolen your last cow, kidnaped your last woman. If
you’ve got any prayers to say you better say ’em.”

“I’m not prayin’,” said Jack coldly. “I never stole yore cows and I
never kidnaped any woman.”

“What else could yuh say?” cried Reber, and then to his men, “Run a rope
over the ridge-pole of the stable.”

The men hurried to do his bidding. Old Buck Priest had heard Reber’s
order, and it seemed to amuse him greatly.

“Goin’ to hang the lad, eh?” he laughed. “Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! That’s good!
Goin’ to die with that on yore dirty soul, eh? It’s like yuh, Reber.”

He turned to Jack, who was being held by two men.

“Reber’s men bushwhacked me last night, Jack. They killed Ken Mader.
Yesterday afternoon they killed O’Steen.”

“You lie!” declared Reber weakly. “You’re tryin’ to turn it around. You
stole my cattle and my men caught yuh.”

“And yore men shot Sam Herd yesterday, Priest,” declared Nelson.

“Lies!” panted Buck. “All lies! We didn’t know Herd was dead until we
met yuh at the forks of the road, Nelson.”

“The rope’s ready, Park,” called one of the men.

One of the cowboys threw a noose around Jack’s neck, but he did not
quiver. He was probably the coolest man in the crowd.

“Have you said yore prayer?” asked Reber.

Jack shut his lips tightly.

“All right,” said Reber weakly.

“I wish you’d wait until June Meline recovers,” said Jack. “She might
have somethin’ to say.”

“Your time is up, Silver.”

“Yuh better not hang him,” said Buck Priest. “You’ll be sorry, Reber.
Ain’t there nothin’ that can save him?”

“Not a thing, Priest.”

“All right, Reber. Go ahead and hang him. Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! Hang him, you
dirty old pup! Hang yore own son, and be ---- to yuh! Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!”

In spite of his weakness, Reber jerked forward, staring at Buck Priest.
Jack Silver stumbled forward, his eyes on the curiously twisted features
of the old cattleman. Reber tore his gaze away and looked at Jack
Silver.

“You lie, Priest!” he said.

“I don’t lie! He’s your son, Park. His mother died when he was born and
he was nursed by a squaw. Ask him who his father was--he don’t know, I
tell yuh!”

Jack shook his head.

“I kept track of him, Park,” said Priest. “I shipped him to school and
paid for it. I wanted an ace in the hole. You’ve always wondered if
there was a child. Look at him, Reber. He’s yore own flesh and
blood--and you’re goin’ to hang him! Let’s get it over with, Reber. I
want to see you hang yore own son.”

Reber shut his eyes, and after a few moments the tears trickled down his
cheeks. The wound was sapping his strength. It was a long way to a
doctor, and he knew he couldn’t live till one came.

One of his men came bustling into the crowd.

“Hey,” he shouted, “that fellow down by the stable is Bell, of this
ranch, and the one on the hill up there is Bob Cliff, of the Lightnin’!
What does it mean?”

“It means that Reber’s own men planned to clean him out,” said Jack
Silver. “They kidnaped June Meline. I found her and brought her here.
Last night Bell killed McLeese. He was on the porch and he’s burned up
by this time. I think you’ll find that the Circle X, Lightnin’ and Two
Bar X outfits were makin’ a big steal, but circumstances blocked ’em.”

Reber opened his eyes and stared at Jack.

“Is that all true, Jack?” he asked.

“The girl’s awake,” burst in one of the men.

They brought her over to Reber. She saw the rope around Jack’s neck.

“He--he saved me!” she said hoarsely to Reber. “Jack Silver wasn’t to
blame. It was your own men. Oh, you’ve been hurt again!”

Reber leaned back and his face was very white now.

“Come in close, boys,” he said weakly. “Listen to what I’m sayin’. No
time to write. Jack Silver is my son. Everything I own belongs to him. I
think Buck Priest taught him to hate me. I--I didn’t kill off his herd
of cattle. Mebbe my men did it. But it’s all right now. He owns this
valley and everything else I have.

“Get Buck Priest to a doctor. I don’t hate him any more. He gave me back
my son. Jack--come closer. This--is--June. She’s--fine. I--I--”

His head fell forward on his chest.

                   *       *       *       *       *

There was little left of the old ranchhouse when Jack Silver and June
Meline stood beside the body of Park Reber, who seemed to be smiling in
his sleep. Nelson came up to Jack and held out his hand.

“You’ll have to hire new crews, Jack,” he said. “I imagine a lot of
Diamond R men went over the West Fork pass this mornin’.”

“Let ’em go,” said Jack. “There’s been enough killin’.”

He put his good arm around June and they went down toward the stables,
where the men were rigging a stretcher to carry Buck Priest back to his
ranch.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the May 15, 1927 issue of
Adventure magazine.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE VALLEY OF LOST HERDS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
The Project Gutenberg eBook of The valley of lost herds, by W. C. Tuttle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The valley of lost herds

Author: W. C. Tuttle

Release Date: May 22, 2023 [eBook #70832]

Language: English

Produced by: Roger Frank and Sue Clark

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE VALLEY OF LOST HERDS ***

THE VALLEY OF LOST HERDS

by W. C. Tuttle

A New Kind of Ranch Foreman Deals with Cattle-Rustlers


The big Tomahawk--saloon, gambling palace, honkatonk--blazed with
lights. Cowboys jostled each other at the long bar, or laughed and made
merry with the girls who thronged the rooms. The roulette whirred, poker
chips rattled and the voices of the dealers droned above the roar of the
crowd.

It was the big night of the month in Tomahawk--pay night on the Reber
ranches. And pay night on the Reber ranches meant that all the small
ranches to the north would also pay off and let their men come to town.
There was no limit to anything. Reber owned the Tomahawk Saloon; owned
nearly everything else in the town of Tomahawk, as far as that was
concerned.

And with one exception he owned all of Reber Valley. It had been known
as Tomahawk Valley, and was still Tomahawk Valley on the map, but to
those who lived there it was Reber Valley. For Park Reber owned the M
33, Half-Wheel, Circle S, Two Bar X and the Lightning. There was really
only one ranch he did not own, the S Bar P. There was another little
place twenty miles south of Tomahawk which belonged to Jack Silver, who
had never registered any brand. So, outside of the S Bar P, Park Reber
really owned the valley.

In an area thirty miles long by about fifteen miles in width Park Reber
was supreme--a real cattle baron. And Park Reber sat in his big house in
Tomahawk town, all alone except for a Chinese cook, and gloated. He was
_the_ big man of the country--big and lonesome. And sometimes he was
mad, they said. Men worked for him, spent their money in his saloon and
gambling house; but none of them admired him.

He was about sixty years of age--white-haired, harsh of feature, his
deep-set eyes gloomy. Over his left eye was a white scar like a crescent
moon, and he often touched it, as if it annoyed him. He drove his men
hard, demanded results and got most of their wages back _via_ the green
cloth.

It had taken him twenty years to become owner of the valley.

His herds, the Diamond R brand, roamed the many hills. While his ranches
were all designated by their original brand names, all the stock was
branded with the Diamond R. Other ranches shipped from Tomahawk, but the
Diamond R was the heavy shipper. They owned the loading corrals--or
rather Reber did.

Park Reber did not come often to the Tomahawk Saloon, but he had been
coming oftener of late. Some said it was because of June Meline, the
tall, black-haired beauty who played the violin. She was not a fiddler.
There seemed a difference between June Meline and the rest of the girls
of the honkatonk. Her white skin was untouched by rouge or paint and
there was an imperious lift to her well shaped head. Nor did she mix
with the others.

Park Reber loved music and most of all he loved the wailing notes of her
violin. Often she had come to his table to talk with him. She refused
drinks, but liked to discuss with him his business troubles. Some said
she was trying to “rope-in” the old man, but Park Reber knew better. He
admired her level-headed way of looking at things.

And on this pay night Park Reber came again, taking his usual table,
where he might drink and watch the show. With him was “Slim” Patterson,
foreman of the Half-Wheel ranch. Their table was near the platform,
where the three-piece orchestra rattled out its tin-panny music.

The show was just at its height as they sat down. There was a burst of
applause as June Meline came out carrying her violin. She was dressed in
black silk, which accentuated the pallor of her skin. Only the piano
played her accompaniment, and as she lifted her violin the pianist
hesitated.

Some one had spoken a word aloud--the name of a man.

“‘Buck’ Priest!”

And there he stood, not more than six feet away from Park Reber, backed
by two of his men. It was the first time Buck Priest had ever been in
the Tomahawk Saloon. He was as old as Park Reber, possibly older. He
wore his hair long, but his thin, evil face, with the hawk-bill nose,
was smooth-shaven. He wore a silver-trimmed sombrero, buckskin shirt,
gray trousers tucked in the tops of his high-heeled boots, and around
his waist was a wide, beautifully carved leather cartridge belt
supporting a holstered Colt.

The men with him were hard-bitted cowboys--fighting men of the S Bar P.
It took nerve for Buck Priest to lead his men in among the cowboys of
the Diamond R. But Buck Priest had nerve. He had fought Park Reber until
Reber had told his men to leave the S Bar P alone.

At one time--over twenty years ago--these two men had been comrades.

It was evident that Buck Priest was drunk this night. He was not a
drinking man, but once a year Buck Priest would get drunk; and when he
got drunk, he was so cold-blooded that even his own men did not wish to
associate with him.

It seemed as if every man in the room were holding his breath. Park
Reber got slowly to his feet, and Priest laughed harshly.

“You dirty old cow thief!”

Buck Priest fairly hissed the words at Reber.

“You sneakin’ old rustler!”

No one moved; no one spoke. The two men, one on each side of Buck
Priest, were bent forward tensely, their eyes sweeping the room, ready
to draw and shoot at the first move. Park Reber’s eyes blinked angrily,
but he held still, staring at Buck Priest.

“I’m talkin’ to you, Reber,” said Priest slowly. “Callin’ you a thief.
And you ain’t gut guts enough to deny it. You’ve rustled my cows just as
long as you’re goin’ to, Reber. I’ve come into the lion’s den to tell
yuh what I think of yuh, you cow thief!”

There could be but one answer to that accusation. Reber had been a
gun-man, but of late years he had left that distinction to his hired
men. He did not wear a belt and gun, but under his left arm-pit was a
holstered Colt; and now he jerked back, reaching for this concealed gun.

It was what Buck Priest wanted, what he came there to force Park Reber
to do--reach for a gun. His hand streaked down to his thigh and whipped
up a big black-handled revolver. For a fraction of a second Park Reber’s
life was not worth a penny. Something flashed between Reber and Priest
just as Priest pulled the trigger--something that smashed against
Priest’s hand and arm, partly ruining the shot which was intended for
Park Reber’s heart.

The big gun thundered as Buck Priest jerked sidewise. Park Reber stepped
backward against his chair, tripped and fell to the floor. Priest and
his two men whirled and headed for the doorway, and the crowd gave them
plenty of room.

Men lifted Reber to his feet and then set him in a chair.

“That fiddler girl!” exclaimed one of them. “She threw her fiddle and
hit Buck Priest on the arm.”

The girl sprang from the platform and was at Park Reber’s side in a
moment, and he smiled at her. Slim Patterson ripped away the shoulder of
his coat. The room was in an uproar. No one thought of going after Buck
Priest. Some one went after a doctor, who came in a few minutes.

The bullet had struck high in Reber’s shoulder, and he was quite ill.
The doctor, skilled in gunshot cases, told him he was very lucky. Some
one had recovered the violin, but it had been walked on until it hardly
resembled an instrument. The girl looked ruefully at it, but said
nothing.

Several of the cowboys secured a cot, using it in lieu of a stretcher,
and carried Reber home; but not until he had received June Meline’s
assurance that she would act as his nurse.

“I wish you would,” said the doctor. “Nurses are hard to find out here.
And, anyway, your violin is broken.”

“I’ll buy yuh a carload,” said Reber weakly. “Don’t leave me alone with
Hop Lee and this darned doctor. I’ve got lots of room up there, June.”

And so June Meline became nurse for Park Reber. She knew little about
nursing and told Park Reber so. But he grinned painfully and told her he
didn’t know much about being shot, as far as that was concerned.

She took up her residence in the big old house, which was really a
ranchhouse, in the town. Hop Lee, the old Chinese cook, who cared for no
one except Park Reber, took to June and actually smiled at her.

It was a new sensation to Park Reber, this idea of having a woman
around. Not in nearly twenty-five years had he seen a woman in his
house. His five foremen came at irregular intervals to report to him,
and June often heard the name of Buck Priest spoken.

There was another name that caused Park Reber to curse--the name of Jack
Silver.

It seemed that Jack Silver’s name was connected with the word “rustler.”
There were two of these foreman that June did not like--Nort Jackson of
the Lightning and Dave McLeese of the Two Bar X.

Nort Jackson was tall, thin, swarthy, black of eye, and wore a weak
black mustache. He smiled at her too much, June thought. McLeese was
ruddy of skin, with cold blue eyes under huge blonde brows. His nose had
been broken across the arch and a huge scar twisted his mouth into a
leer. Reber told her McLeese had been kicked in the face by a shod
horse.

                   *       *       *       *       *

It was several days after the shooting of Reber. Up to this time he had
not mentioned Buck Priest to her. The doctor had finished dressing the
wound and had given her orders for the feeding of the patient. Reber had
been watching her closely for quite a while.

“Gettin’ tired of bein’ nurse to an old man?” he asked suddenly.

June smiled at him and shook her head.

“No, I’m not tired, Mr. Reber.”

“That’s good. I like you, June. You saved my life that night. Buck
Priest is a good shot. He meant to kill me, yuh see. You shore thought
real quick, June. You’ve got a head, girl. I’ve watched yuh around here
and I’ve talked to yuh. You’ve got sense--too much sense to be playing a
violin in a honkatonk.”

June smiled at him.

“One must eat, Mr. Reber. And you have paid me better than I could get
any other place.”

“You’ve earned it, June. I wondered how they’d take yore kind of music.
But cowboys are sentimental. I’ve seen ’em cry over yore music. Give the
average cowboy a few drinks and he’ll cry over ‘Home Sweet Home’. Yes,
they will, June. Lot’s of ’em never had a regular home; lots of ’em were
kicked out early in life--but they’ll cry, just the same.”

“I suppose,” said June, nodding.

“And you never asked me anythin’ about Buck Priest. That night he called
me a dirty cow thief, didn’t he?”

Park Reber smiled bitterly.

“Mebbe Buck was drunk. He’s hated me for years, June. Oh, I’m no angel.
I tried to run Buck out of this country. He’s a fighter. He’s not sorry
he shot me, but sorry he didn’t kill me.”

“Why didn’t you have him arrested, Mr. Reber?”

“Arrested? For shootin’ me? Why, no, June, it was an even break. My
shoulder-holster--well, it isn’t a fast draw. I’d have killed him. Oh,
he hates me! Funny, isn’t it, June? We used to be pardners--me and Buck.

“And it was all over a woman--a woman like you, June. She was like you
in lots of ways, I think. The valley wasn’t what it is now. Tomahawk was
a tradin’ post. This girl came here with her family in a covered wagon.
I was in the south end of the valley at that time, where me and Buck had
a small herd of cattle. Buck was here at the post, and met her.

“He was two days late bringing in supplies, and when he came he told me
about her. I told him he was a fool to even think of a girl. It was a
bad country to bring a girl into. The Cheyennes were unfriendly then,
and there were a lot of them in the valley. They stole cattle and
horses. It kept us busy protectin’ our herds.

“But Buck went back to the post, over thirty miles from our ranch, and
was gone five days. He was going to bring in more ammunition, but when
he came back he was drunk and had no ammunition, so I left him there and
went after it.

“And I met this girl. Her name was Janice Gray. Pretty name, eh? And she
was pretty. I found that Buck had proposed to her and she had turned him
down. Two days later we were married and went back to the ranch.”

Park Reber smiled bitterly and looked at the ceiling.

“I don’t know why she married me, June. I can see the look on Buck’s
face yet when we rode in and told him. And I had forgotten the
ammunition. He didn’t say much. Didn’t wish us happiness--just sat there
and looked at the ground. Finally he said--

“‘Park, I’ll pay you for this some day.’”

“I didn’t know what he meant at the time. He saddled his horse and rode
away. Later on he built a cabin at the forks of the river and sent two
men for half of the stock. I helped them round up all the cattle and
horses, and we divided them equally.

“But he never came near me. I heard that he said he would pay me back
for what I had done, but I did not pay any attention to what I heard. We
were happy, Janice and I. The spring came and turned into summer. There
were few settlers. The Cheyennes were gettin’ worse, but every one said
that when the winter came they’d be driven out by the deep snows and
lack of game. The deer all move over to Clear Valley in the winter,
because of the laurel, which does not grow here.

“The winter came early that season. I had cut a lot of wild hay on the
bottoms, but not enough to feed stock all winter. In October there was
three feet of snow, and it did not go off. By Christmas my hay was all
gone, and I was in a desperate condition.

“I knew that the north end of the valley was open, and there was only
one thing to try and do--to take my herd out of my range. I had one man
working for me. He was a young man by the name of Sneed--John Sneed--a
good boy. I couldn’t leave Janice alone, yuh see. There would be a baby
along soon, and some one had to stay with her. There was a doctor at the
trading post. I tell yuh, I was desperate, so I broke trail with horses
and led my cattle to the upper end of the valley. It was a tough pull. I
took them past Buck’s place, but didn’t see him. He had moved his cattle
out a few days before, and the trail was open from there.

“I had to bring those half-starved cattle almost up to here, where I
threw them in with Buck’s cattle, and came on to the post. It was bitter
cold that night I rode in, but it warmed up a little, and by morning the
worst blizzard that ever swept this country came down through here.

“This whole valley was a howling hell of wind and snow, June. I don’t
suppose our cattle lasted one night. You couldn’t see a man at your
elbow. A man couldn’t live in it. Twenty below and a fifty-mile gale. I
swore I’d go home, but they stopped me. It lasted five days.

“And when the wind died down the temperature died with it, until the
thermometer at the post froze. Then we started for my place, the doctor
and me, traveling on snowshoes. The valley was a place of the dead.
There was not even a rabbit-track. Our cattle were under the drifts.

“There was some one at Buck’s cabin. We could see a thread of smoke from
his chimney; the rest of the cabin was buried in the snow. But there was
no smoke from my chimney.”

Park Reber shut his eyes, and for a while June thought he had fallen
asleep. Then:

“No, there was no smoke, June; the cabin was empty. We dug our way down
to the door and went in. There was John Sneed, lying face down in the
middle of the room--dead. His head had been cut open--his scalp taken.
The Cheyennes had been there. The doctor said he had been dead quite a
while. I think they had been there ahead of the blizzard.

“I don’t remember just what I did, June. They told me that I went
hunting for the Cheyenne camp; I don’t remember. Later I went back to
the post and spent the winter. In the spring I went to the Cheyennes and
tried to find some trace of my wife, but it was useless. They treated me
like a crazy man--and I reckon I was. Later on I went further north and
opened a saloon in a new mining camp. It was a money-maker, and in two
years I came back here and went into cattle again.

“Buck was still here; still hatin’ me. We met one day and he taunted me
with my loss. I tried to kill him with my hands and almost succeeded. It
didn’t help any. Buck Priest ain’t the kind you can whip into
friendship.

“And I think he hates me for being successful. I own practically all of
the Valley. They call it Reber’s Valley. That must hurt Buck Priest. I
tried to buy him out, but he wouldn’t sell. He shot my cattle when they
came on his range, and I--I shot his cattle on my range.

“Oh, it’s been a battle for years. Finally I gave my men orders to let
him and his cattle alone. It seemed to be a mutual truce. But my cattle
have disappeared. I don’t think Buck Priest took them.”

“Who is Jack Silver?” asked June.

Reber looked curiously at her.

“Jack Silver?”

“Yes, I heard his name spoken, Mr. Reber.”

“Jack Silver,” mused Reber. “A handsome devil of a breed, June. He’s
tall, graceful--too smart for my men. He comes to Tomahawk. He’s not
afraid of me. Half Cheyenne. There are no Cheyennes in the Valley now,
June. Uncle Sam keeps ’em on a reservation. But Jack Silver lives back
on Trapper Creek, twenty miles southwest of here. We’ve tried to catch
him stealing my cattle, but he eludes us.

“McLeese of the Two Bar X and Nort Jackson of the Lightnin’ have trailed
him for weeks; and Slim Patterson has tried to trap him, but he’s too
clever. He’s got the cunning of the Cheyenne, the brain of a white man.”

June sat in an old rocker, her chin resting on the palm of her right
hand, as she thought over Reber’s story. It was the first time she had
ever heard the reasons for Buck Priest’s hatred of Park Reber.

“How many head of cattle has Jack Silver stolen from you?” she asked.

Reber shook his head slowly.

“Who knows, June? More than I care to lose.”

He smiled at the thoughtful expression on her face.

“What would you do if you was in my place, June?”

“I was just thinking,” said June, “that if I were in your place I’d hire
Jack Silver to work for me.”

Reber frowned quickly. “Hire him to--”

“Why not? You’d save money--and he would be worth what you paid him,
wouldn’t he?”

“I never thought of that, June.”

They were interrupted by Hop Lee, who came in and told Reber that Slim
Patterson of the Half-Wheel was waiting to see him. June left the room
when Patterson came in.

“How’re yuh comin’?” asked Slim, sitting down in the chair June had
vacated.

“All right,” said Reber. “Be out in a day or so.”

“Good! Say, I was back between Trapper Creek and the West Fork yesterday
and I found about a hundred cows bunched in a draw back there. It shore
looked as though somebody was all set for a drive. Me and ‘Chuck’ Avery
laid there until night waitin’ for somebody to show up, but they didn’t.

“I left Chuck there and went home. Sent ‘Biddy’ Conley and Abe Lehman
out to keep him company and pulled out for here this mornin’, after
Biddy came in and said they hadn’t seen anybody yet.”

Reber sighed wearily.

“I dunno, Slim,” he said slowly. “I talked with McLeese the other day
and he suggested that we post men in that Trapper Creek pass. It might
be a good scheme. They can’t get past the Two Bar X into West Fork pass
without bein’ seen by some of the boys, and those are the only two ways
out, except past here.

“I’ll tell yuh what I want yuh to do, Slim. Send about three of yore men
to Trapper Creek pass, and then pack a message to Jackson, McLeese,
Franks and Carlin to be here at my place tomorrow night, and you come
with ’em. I’ve got a scheme to stop Jack Silver.”

“You have? That’s fine.”

Slim got to his feet and picked up his hat.

“I’ll pass the word to the boys for tomorrow night. Heard anythin’ more
of Buck Priest?”

“Not a word, Slim. Have you?”

“Only that he says yo’re stealin’ his cows. I think he’s tryin’ to
excuse himself for shootin’ yuh.”

Reber smiled slowly, and Slim went out.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The S Bar P ranchhouse and other buildings were of log construction,
rambling old structures one story in height. The ranchhouse and
bunk-house had the old mud-and-stone fire-places. Back of the stables
was Porcupine Creek, which ran northwest to Tomahawk River. It was about
six miles from the ranch to Tomahawk town.

It was the day after Reber had sent the message to his foremen when Jack
Silver rode in at the S Bar P ranch. He rode a tall black gelding, a
fitting mount for a man of his physique.

Silver was tall, lithe, dark-skinned. He wore his hair long, but his
face was smooth-shaven. His shirt was black, as were his muffler and
sombrero, and he wore no chaps. His high-heeled boots were of the
short-topped Southwest style, and around his waist was a hand-made
cartridge belt supporting a Colt gun in a hand-made holster.

He swung off his horse, waving a greeting to three of Buck Priest’s men
who were down near the corrals. Priest met him at the door of the
ranchhouse and they shook hands warmly.

“How are yuh, Jack?” asked Priest, as they sat down in the main room of
the ranchhouse.

“I’m fine,” replied Silver. “Been over in Clear Valley for a week and
just got back. Ran into Dave McLeese yesterday and he told me about you
and Reber havin’ a fight.”

Priest scowled heavily and slapped the palm of his right hand on his
knee.

“I tried to kill him, Jack. A girl ruined the shot.”

Silver smiled, showing a flash of white, even teeth.

“A girl, eh? McLeese didn’t tell me about her.”

“A fiddler in the Tomahawk,” said Priest. “Flung her fiddle and hit me
in the hand. Oh, I was goin’ to kill him, Jack. Reber and his gang of
cutthroats are runnin’ all the S Bar P cattle out of the valley.”

“I thought there was sort of a truce.”

“Truce!” Priest laughed shortly. “Reber sent me word that he’d quit if I
would. I quit, Jack. But he didn’t. The only way I can ever make Park
Reber quit is to kill him. Next time there won’t be any fiddle-throwin’
female present.”

Jack Silver laughed softly.

“You know what they think of me, Buck. I’m watched every minute by
Reber’s men. Why, I can’t even kill a piece of fresh meat any more.
They’re layin’ for a chance to kill me. Some day they’ll put up a job on
me--and I’ll swing for it.

“Oh, they’re nice to my face--McLeese, Jim Carlin, Nort Jackson--all
nice to my face. Behind my back they call me the dirty half-breed--the
Injun rustler. I trap for a livin’, Buck. You know that. Reber hates me
because I’m half Cheyenne.”

Buck Priest smiled crookedly, nodding slowly.

“There’s plenty of hate in this valley, Jack. I hope some day to see
Park Reber suffer.”

“He ought to be half Injun,” said Silver bitterly. “That’s enough
sufferin’ for one man. Last night he sent word to me by one of the
Half-Wheel punchers to be at his place tonight.”

“He sent word to you?”

“Yeah.”

“Wants to trap yuh, eh?”

Silver shrugged his shoulders.

“I played safe, Buck. Today I came across the hills and I’ll stay here
until dark. I don’t know what Reber wants.”

“He’s still crippled, and that girl is nursin’ him. She’s makin’ a play
for Reber.”

“Pretty girl, Buck?”

Priest nodded.

“Yeah, pretty as a picture. But what do yuh suppose Reber wants of you?”

“I dunno.”

“Are you goin’ to take a chance on him, Jack?”

“I’ll see what he wants.”

“It might be a scheme to harm yuh, Jack.”

“Might be. But as far as that’s concerned, if they want to kill me they
can pick me off most any time.”

“That’s true,” agreed Priest. “We’ll all ride in after supper, Jack. If
things go wrong, we’ll do what we can.”

“And if Reber finds you in town he’ll set his dogs on yuh,” said Silver
grimly.

“I’ll have my dogs along,” replied Buck meaningly. “We went into the
Tomahawk and came out safe enough. But I was drunk, Jack. It wasn’t a
job for a sober man. We sure shocked that gang a-plenty.”

“I wish I had been there,” smiled Jack. “I’ve never been in the
Tomahawk.”

“It’s not a safe place, Jack; and maybe you’ll find it out tonight.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

None of Reber’s foremen knew why he had sent for them. Some of them were
obliged to ride the length of the valley, but they were all
there--Patterson, Jackson, McLeese, Carlin and Franks. McLeese was
drunk; not blind drunk by any manner of means, but inclined to be
quarrelsome.

Park Reber was out of bed, and met them in the big living-room, a huge
place forty feet long and twenty-five feet wide. Around two sides of
this huge room was a wide veranda. At one end was a doorway leading out
on to the veranda; and there was another doorway about fifteen feet from
the corner, on the side. About midway of the room was a big window, and
there were two windows at the front end.

Across this front end of the room was a long table and a number of
chairs. On the opposite side of the room from the side entrance was a
huge fireplace, capable of taking ten-foot logs. Most of the furnishings
were of the home-made variety, and the floors were strewn with
bright-colored Navajo rugs and the skins of wolf and grizzly. The walls
were darkened with smoke and age.

The five foremen came in together. Reber seated them around the big
table, he himself sitting at the head of the table, still a trifle pale,
unable to use his left arm. At his right sat June Meline. She received
several undisguised scowls. Beside her sat Franks of the M 33. At the
opposite end of the table sat McLeese, scowling at everybody, and June
in particular. He did not like the idea of having a woman at their
conference. On the other side of the table sat Patterson, Jackson and
Carlin.

Reber’s glance swept around the table and came to rest on McLeese.

“You’re drunk,” he said shortly. “Why?”

McLeese grimaced and tried to laugh it off, but Reber’s eyes bored into
him and he coughed a little.

“I wanted sober men at this meetin’,” said Reber.

“I’m sober enough to know what I’m doin’,” said McLeese.

“Not if you had three drinks--and you’ve had more.”

Reber did not wait for McLeese to reply, but turned to the others.

“I brought you boys here tonight to see if we can’t figure out some way
to stop this rustlin’,” he said slowly. “We’re losin’ too many cattle to
suit me. What’s to be done?”

Patterson shook his head.

“I dunno, Park,” he said slowly. “It beats me.”

“How about you, Jackson?”

“Same as Slim.”

“Same here,” growled Carlin.

“They ain’t hit my place,” said Franks of the M 33. “Mebbe I’m too far
north.”

“That may be,” nodded Reber. “But it’s got to stop.”

“Go out and stop old Buck Priest,” said McLeese.

Reber studied McLeese’s flushed face.

“You think they’re runnin’ ’em out this end of the valley, Mac?”

“Priest hates yuh, don’t he? They’re not goin’ over the West Fork pass,
and the boys have been watchin’ the Trapper Creek pass. Jack Silver is
friendly to Buck Priest. By ----, I’d wipe out that whole ---- gang.”

“There’s a lady present,” said Reber coldly.

“I forgot,” said McLeese. “Anyway, I don’t think this is any place for a
woman.”

“I asked her to be here,” said Reber. “When I want yore opinion on that
I’ll ask for it, McLeese!”

“I’m jist wonderin’ if McLeese’s idea ain’t worth quite a lot, at that,”
said Jackson. “I don’t mean about the lady, but about Priest and Silver.
We’ve tried to trap Silver a lot of times, but he’s too much Injun to be
trapped.”

“He’s smart,” said McLeese.

“Too smart for you, eh?” asked Reber.

“Oh, I dunno,” flared McLeese.

“You haven’t landed him, and that’s the answer,” said Reber. “He’s too
smart. He thinks twice while you’re thinkin’ once. And you object to
this lady being here. She’s got more sense in a minute than you’ll ever
show, McLeese.”

Both June and McLeese flushed, but for different reasons.

The rest of the men eyed June closely. Perhaps they thought Reber was
getting old and that this pretty girl was in a position to get a hand
into the Reber fortune. It was an embarrassing position for the girl.
McLeese laughed, and they saw Reber’s lips tighten. Carlin kicked at
McLeese’s ankle beneath the table, but only succeeded in kicking a leg
of the table.

“We’re not gettin’ anywhere,” said Reber coldly.

“No, and we’ll not get anywhere as long as you’ll let Jack Silver and
Buck Priest do as they please,” growled Carlin. “Let’s clean ’em out, I
say.”

“On what evidence, Carlin?”

“General principles. Buck tried to kill you. He’ll try it again. Silver
is a half-breed thief. Just pass the word and we’ll rid the valley of
the whole brood.”

“Meanin’,” said Reber slowly, “that Silver is too smart for you to catch
red-handed, eh?”

“If yuh want to put it that way--yes.”

“You think he bunches up cattle and takes ’em through the Trapper Creek
pass and sells ’em in Clear Valley?”

“Cinch. We can’t get any evidence in Clear Valley. We’ve tried it often
enough.”

“That gang over there will take stolen cattle, that’s a cinch,” said
Jackson. “You’d never get any evidence if yuh went there in a gang--and
one or two men would soon be wiped out. They’re pretty clannish.”

Reber nodded slowly. He knew Jackson was right. Suddenly there came the
slither of a moving body, and they turned toward the big window about
ten feet beyond them. Just inside the window stood Jack Silver, his left
shoulder resting against the wall, his two thumbs hooked over his belt.

For several moments no one spoke. Silver laughed, and his teeth flashed
white in the light from the hanging lamp in the center of the room. He
seemed to be resting lazily against that shoulder, but every man at that
table knew he could draw and shoot quicker than any of them.

“Gentlemen, Mr. Silver himself,” said Reber slowly.

The men glanced at Reber curiously, but turned back to Silver.

“You sent for me,” said Jack.

Reber nodded.

“Yeah, I sent for yuh, Silver. Slim, will you get a chair for Mr.
Silver?”

Slim Patterson started to get up, but Silver halted him.

“I’ll stand up,” he said slowly, smiling again. “Since when did the
Reber outfits start havin’ squaws at their council?”

June straightened in her chair, her eyes flashing. Silver’s laugh was
almost an insult. Reber did not look at her. McLeese grinned in evident
enjoyment.

“Silver,” said Reber firmly, “you’re deliberately tryin’ to antagonize
us, but I’ll overlook it. I asked you here tonight to make you a
proposition. Will you go to work for me as a foreman on one of my
ranches?”

It was like a bomb-shell exploding in the room. The idea of offering
Jack Silver a position as foreman! The men wondered whether Reber was
losing his mind. Even Silver laughed.

“Make me a foreman?” said Silver. “What’s the idea, Reber?”

“That’s my business, Silver. I’m makin’ you that offer.”

Silver’s eyes swept the faces of the five foremen.

“Which ranch?” he asked smiling.

“Any one you’ll take.”

Silver’s amused glance came back to June.

“Which one is the squaw goin’ to take?”

Reber shook his head sadly.

“You don’t understand what I’m offerin’ you, Silver.”

“Yes, I do, Reber.”

Silver was not smiling now and he had shoved away from the wall.

“You’re tryin’ to buy me off--tryin’ to get me to work for you. You’re
afraid of me, Reber. I dunno why, but yuh are. Your men watch me day and
night. I’m tired of it, but not so tired that I’ll take a job with you.
You hate me because I’m half Cheyenne.

“You ran my people out of Tomahawk Valley, Reber. I know your
story--know why you hate my people. I had a little herd of cattle
started, but you and your men killed ’em off to keep me from being a
cattleman. I’ve no cause to love you. I don’t want your job. Give it to
the squaw.”

He flung his left leg across the windowsill, and before any one could
say anything further, he disappeared. Patterson sprang to his feet, and
the other men were behind him, but Reber stopped them.

“Sit down,” he ordered. “He’s done no wrong.”

“The dirty half-breed!” snarled McLeese.

June Meline was on her feet, her hands on the table, as she leaned
forward, staring at the window where Silver had disappeared. He had
taunted her, called her a squaw! But there was something romantically
wild about this tall, slim, white-toothed young man who defied them. He
had laughed at them and refused to work for Park Reber.

“The trouble is,” Reber was speaking, “yo’re all afraid of Jack Silver.”

June turned quickly to Reber.

“I’m not,” she declared.

Reber smiled at her.

“You’re not, June?”

“Not a bit. I’ll bet I could trap him.”

Several of the men laughed aloud.

“He’d steal you,” declared McLeese, and then laughed at his own
statement.

“You think you could, eh?” said Reber slowly. “I wonder.”

“Ridiculous,” declared Jackson.

Reber leaned on the table looking at June, studying her keenly. Suddenly
he struck the table with his clenched fist.

“I’ll do it!” he exclaimed. “June, beginnin’ tomorrow you’ll be a
ranch-foreman for the Diamond R.”

He looked around at the hard-bitted faces of his men, who were looking
at him, wondering whether he was in his right mind.

“What ranch?” asked McLeese.

Reber shifted his eyes to McLeese.

“The Two Bar X.”

McLeese’s ranch. He shut his jaws tightly and looked at Reber. He knew
it meant that Reber was going to fire him.

“That’s a ---- of a note!” he snorted.

“I run my ranches to suit myself, McLeese.”

Reber reached in his pocket and took out a wallet, from which he counted
out several bills. He handed them to McLeese.

“That’s yore pay up to the first of the month, McLeese.”

“And I’m through right now, eh?”

“Yeah, right now.”

“All right,” McLeese got to his feet unsteadily. “I’ve got some personal
stuff at the ranch and I’ll go get it.”

Reber nodded, and they watched McLeese leave the house. None of the
other men made any comment. For several moments after McLeese was gone
Reber stared silently at the door. Then:

“I think that’s all boys. Goodnight.”

He got to his feet and June walked from the room with him. The men
looked curiously at him, and went out.

“I need a shot of liquor,” said Patterson dryly. “Personally, I think
the old man is losin’ his mind.”

“He’s as crazy as a bedbug!” snapped Carlin. “Offers a job to Jack
Silver, and then gives it to a ---- woman! I’ll take a drink with yuh.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Park Reber wanted to go with June to the Two Bar X ranch the next day,
but the old doctor vetoed such a move on the part of his patient. Reber
was far from well. There was none of his men in from the ranches, so he
sent Jud Nelson and Sam Heard, two of his men who worked in Tomahawk, to
accompany June.

These men did not know why June was going to the ranch, nor did they ask
Reber. They loaded June and her baggage into a light wagon, kicked off
the brake and drove out of town. It was nearly thirty miles to the Two
Bar X, and the roads were none too good. June occupied the back seat,
and with the rattle and lurch of the vehicle there was little
opportunity for conversation. The two men devoted themselves exclusively
to chewing tobacco and keeping the wagon on the road.

At the forks of the river, about twelve miles south of town, they saw
Slim Patterson and two of his cowboys. The road passed close to the
Half-Wheel ranchhouse. Slim waved at them, but they did not stop. They
took the right-hand road, which led to the Two Bar X. There were no
bridges, and the river crossings were almost deep enough to float the
wagon.

About three miles south of the Half-Wheel ranch they passed the mouth of
Trapper Creek, One of the men told her it was Trapper Creek, and she
knew that Jack Silver’s place was somewhere between the West Fork and
the mountains.

June was still in somewhat of a daze over her new job. She didn’t know a
thing about cattle; she knew nothing about running a ranch. But Reber
had told her merely to use her head. He was the real head of all the
ranches, and he would see that she learned the game. Not that Reber
intended keeping her at the Two Bar X. He was not crazy. But he was
willing to grasp at any straw to stop the cattle rustling. If June could
figure out a way to trap Silver it would be worth many dollars to the
Diamond R and he was going to give her a chance.

He knew the temper of his men, knew that the majority of them were
against the idea of hiring a woman. But he did feel that any of them
would support any scheme she might formulate to stop the wholesale
stealing of his cattle.

They had just passed the mouth of Trapper Creek and were traveling
through a willow patch in the river bottom, near a ford, when the driver
suddenly jerked up his team, almost throwing June off the seat. She had
a confused impression of the team’s twisting sidewise, of a man yelling
a warning, of the sound of a shot.

She flung out her right hand, grasping the back of the front seat to
steady herself. Sam Herd was sprawling forward, as if looking down over
the left front wheel, and he suddenly slid ahead limply and slithered
over the wheel to the ground.

Jud Nelson’s two hands were in the air. Two masked men had turned their
horses in close to the wagon. They were wearing empty flour sacks over
their heads, with holes cut in them for eyes. One of them looked down at
Herd.

“That’s one less for Reber,” he growled behind his mask.

The one man kept a rifle trained on Nelson, while the other dismounted,
climbed up and removed Nelson’s revolver.

June’s face was pale, but she kept her nerve when this masked man turned
to her.

“Git out of the wagon,” he ordered gruffly.

There was nothing else for her to do. These men had killed one man
already. She climbed down and he indicated his horse.

“Climb on.”

She looked at Nelson, who was looking straight ahead, his lips
compressed tightly, both hands held rigidly above his head. June could
ride. She climbed into the saddle, hampered by her skirts, and the other
bandit laughed.

“Good lookin’ squaw,” he observed.

The other man turned and walked around the wagon to where Herd’s body
lay. He picked him up, carried him to the rear of the wagon and dumped
him unceremoniously over the tailgate into the wagon-box. He came back
and motioned to Nelson.

“Turn around and drive back,” he said hoarsely. “Take all the time yuh
need. A little hurry might ruin yore health.”

“And yuh might tell old Reber that he ain’t runnin’ this valley yet a
while,” added the other. “The road from here to Tomahawk won’t be
healthy for him and his men, so they don’t need to blame us if they git
what this feller got.”

Nelson nodded. He was more than willing to get away with a whole skin.
He managed to turn the team around in the willows, and started back,
holding the team to a slow walk.

The man mounted behind June, but before they started out he blindfolded
her with a none too clean handkerchief.

Then they rode out of the river bottom, forded the river and headed into
the hills. June knew this, because the horse was climbing most of the
way. There was no conversation. The bandit guided the horse, with an arm
on each side of June. He had been drinking, but not enough to give him
more than a whisky breath.

It seemed to June that they had been riding about an hour, when the
horses fairly slid downward for considerable distance, traveled along
for a while on level ground and stopped. The men dismounted and lifted
June off the saddle, guiding her into a cabin, where they removed the
blindfold.

It was a small log cabin, crudely furnished, with a dirt floor. It
smelled musty in there. June blinked painfully as she looked around at
the two men. One of them secured a length of lariat-rope with which he
roped her tightly to a chair. He knew how to knot ropes, and when he was
finished there was no possible way for June to escape. The other man
inspected the knots and nodded his approval.

“That’s the old Injun knot,” he growled. “No squaw ever wiggled loose
from one like that.”

The other laughed.

“You’ll stay here quite a while,” he told June. “No use to yelp. There
ain’t a man within miles of here. When Jack Silver does a job, he does
it well. Park Reber can hunt and be ---- to him, but he’ll never find
yuh. We’re goin’ away, but we’ll be back tonight some time and bring
some feed for yuh.”

They turned abruptly and left the cabin, closing the door behind them.
June heard the creak of their saddles and the sound of the horses
walking away. She tried to loosen her bonds, but she soon found that
there was nothing to do but to sit and wait.

She wanted to cry, to scream for help. But she knew that it would not
help matters in the least. She was going to need all her nerve. She
wondered what Park Reber would do. What could he do, she wondered? It
might take them weeks to find her. Jack Silver had outwitted him again.

She wondered whether one of these men was Silver. Neither looked like
the man who had taunted her. They were not so tall and slim as Silver.

It was, possibly, thirty minutes after the departure of the two men when
she heard the soft _plop-plop_ of a horse’s hoofs. She listened
intently. The horse had stopped near the cabin door, and she heard a
footstep.

Suddenly the door was flung open and a man stood in the opening--a tall,
slender man. She was looking against the light and could not see his
features, but she knew it was Jack Silver.

He came slowly in and stood looking down at her.

“Reber’s squaw, eh?” he said softly.

June shut her lips tightly, refusing to reply. He walked back to the
door and looked around. Beyond him she could see his tall black horse
looking toward him. Finally he came back to her and began taking off the
ropes.

It did not take him long to unfasten her hands, and then he dropped to
his knees beside her, fumbling with the knots beneath the chair. It was
her big chance, and she had the nerve to take advantage of it.

Leaning slightly toward him she reached down and quickly whipped the
six-shooter from his holster and shoved the muzzle against his neck.
June knew guns. The hammer came to full cock from a twist of her thumb.

Jack Silver did not look up, but his hands came away from the rope. He
did not move, but waited for her to act.

“Unfasten that rope,” she ordered, and was surprized to find her voice
fairly steady.

Silver unfastened the remaining rope, and she got to her feet, backing
away from him.

“Now I’ve got you,” she said hoarsely.

“Looks thataway,” he said slowly. “I hope yuh know that trigger only
pulls about a pound.”

“I am not interested in trigger pulls, Mr. Silver.”

“Possibly not. I am.”

June picked up the loose rope with her left hand, keeping an eye on
Silver, and then motioned for him to precede her out of the cabin. He
made no objection, but his eyes were just a little curious.

June tossed him the looped end of the rope.

“Put it around your neck,” she ordered.

He shut his lips tightly and studied her intently. She had the gun at
her hip now, and the hammer was still cocked. He shrugged his shoulders
and smiled thinly.

“Single-handed lynchin’?” he asked.

June shook her head firmly.

“I’m not your judge, Jack Silver. But you’re going to guide me to the
Two Bar X ranch, you know. You’ll walk ahead with the rope around your
neck and I’ll ride your horse.”

Jack Silver laughed softly as he put the loop around his neck.

“So that’s your game, eh?” he said amusedly. “You’ve got a lot of nerve
for a woman. I never knew that pretty women had nerve. That’s how yuh
won old man Reber, eh? Pretty girl with plenty nerve. Oh, he’s worth
winnin’. He’s got nobody to leave his money to--no relatives. And he’s
got plenty money. I heard he had made you a foreman.”

Silver threw back his head and laughed.

June had a notion to yank the loop tight and choke off that laugh.

“You’ll laugh different when I get you to the Two Bar X,” she promised
him.

He sobered suddenly.

“That’s right,” he said quickly. “They don’t like me. But what I’d like
to know is what you were doing in this cabin all tied up like that?”

“How did you know I was in that cabin?” she retorted.

“I didn’t. I saw two men riding away from here, so I came to
investigate. Where most men are my enemies, I kinda look at things, yuh
know.”

“You lie!”

Silver’s eyes narrowed with sudden anger.

“You know you lie,” said June hotly. “You and your men knew I was going
to the Two Bar X today. You had them stop us, and they killed a man--Sam
Herd. You had them bring me to this place. That’s how you knew I was
here. Now I’m going to take you to the Two Bar X and turn you over to
the men. You’re responsible for the death of Sam Herd, and if Park
Reber’s men don’t hang you the law will!”

Silver turned his head away and stared off across the hills.

“Your men won’t be back for quite a while so you don’t need to look for
them,” said June. “How far is it to the Two Bar X?”

“About three miles,” said Silver slowly. “You better let the hammer down
on that gun before yuh mount. Don’t be afraid of that horse--he’s gentle
enough. Compadre! Stand still and let the squaw get on.”

June managed to get into the saddle without tangling up the rope. She
did not dare take her eyes off Silver, and she did not uncock the
revolver. June was taking no chances.

“Now you take me straight to the Two Bar X ranch,” she ordered, “and
don’t try any tricks.”

“You are a very, very smart young lady,” he said seriously. “And I am
not going to try and trick yuh.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

About the time that June and Jack Silver were leaving for the Two Bar X
ranch, a rider came through the gate of the S Bar P; a rider who swayed
down along the fork of his saddle, a limp arm hanging on each side of
the horse’s neck.

The rider was Harry O’Steen, one of Buck Priest’s men--a red-headed,
freckled cowboy; a laughing, rollicking sort of person, whose
disposition did much to keep up the morale of the S Bar P.

Buck Priest was sitting on the ranchhouse porch talking with “Rowdy”
Dow, another of his cowboys, when the horse came in. They could see at a
glance that O’Steen had been hurt, and both of them ran down to him.
They eased him to the ground and then carried him to the shade of the
porch.

“Been shot twice,” declared Rowdy. “Gawd A’mighty, he’s all shot to
strings!”

Buck Priest nodded shortly and knelt beside O’Steen, who was trying to
talk. Rowdy ran through the house and came back with a dipper of water,
which he held to O’Steen’s lips. Ken Mader and Dick Leeson, the two
other cowboys, came from the bunk-house and joined them.

“Can yuh talk, Harry?” asked Buck anxiously. “Who shot yuh?”

O’Steen struggled painfully, trying to say something. It came in a jerky
sentence--

“Rustlers--got--me--Porcupine--Creek--”

That was all. He closed his eyes, twitched slightly. Buck got to his
feet, his old face twisted.

“Uh-huh,” he said softly. “Rustlers got him on Porcupine Creek, boys.
Help me carry him in the house. That’s more of Park Reber’s work.”

They placed the body of O’Steen on a cot and covered it up with a
bright-colored blanket.

“Saddle up,” ordered Priest. “Take yore rifles along. We’re goin’ to
Tomahawk and talk to Park Reber with the only language he understands.
He’s goin’ to pay for killin’ O’Steen.”

“That’s the talk,” said Rowdy. “We’ll wipe his town off the map.”

“Four men may not be able to do that, Rowdy,” said Buck Priest wearily,
“but we’ll do what we can.”

Ten minutes later the four men galloped from the S Bar P, heading for
Tomahawk town. The sun was almost down, and they wanted to get there
before dark. About two miles from the ranch the road intersected with
the main road, and as the four riders swept around the point of a hill
they saw a team and light wagon coming from the south.

They were close enough to see that the driver was Nelson, one of Reber’s
men. They drew rein and waited for the wagon to reach them. Priest swung
his horse across the road ahead of the team, forcing them to stop.

“Hyah, Nelson,” said Priest coldly.

“Howdy, gentlemen,” nodded Nelson. “I’m sure glad to see somebody. I
stopped at the Half-Wheel, but there wasn’t nobody at home. Me and Sam
Herd was takin’ that girl to the Two Bar X and we got held up. Sam tried
to draw a gun, and they killed him. And they put the girl on a horse and
took her away. Sam’s in the back of the wagon.”

Rowdy spurred his horse around the wagon and looked in.

“He’s here all right, Buck,” he said.

“Where’d this all happen?”

“Near the mouth of Trapper. Down in them willers, jist before yuh reach
the ford. Two men, Priest. They had sacks over their heads.”

Priest backed his horse off the road and motioned for Nelson to drive
on.

“Ain’t we goin’?” asked Rowdy.

Buck Priest watched the wagon disappear up the road.

“I don’t know what to make of it,” he said. “Sam Herd was one of Park
Reber’s trusted men. And they stole that girl, eh? That’s funny. We’re
goin’ back home, boys. No use goin’ off half-cocked, I reckon. We’ll
pack up some grub and blankets and swing in on the Porcupine. It must
have been kinda late when O’Steen was shot, and the rustlers can’t move
cattle much after dark.”

They turned and rode back to the ranch.

                   *       *       *       *       *

In the meantime Nelson lost no time in driving his jaded horses to
Tomahawk town. It was dark when he arrived, and he went straight to
Reber’s house, where he found Reber with the old doctor. Nelson blurted
out his story as quickly as possible. He helped the doctor carry Herd’s
body into the house, and the doctor found that Herd had been killed
almost instantly.

Reber, still weak from his wound, sat down in a chair and swore
impotently.

“Just for that I’ll wipe Buck Priest and Jack Silver off the map,” he
declared bitterly. “You say you met Priest and his men? They circled
back to see if you got help at the Half-Wheel. Oh, I know Buck Priest!”

“Only one of ’em looked in at the body,” said Nelson.

“They knew it was there. Oh, I’ll make Priest pay. It was either Priest
or Silver--perhaps both. They work together. Nelson, go to the Tomahawk
and see if any of my men are in from the ranches. Bring them here to me.
Wait! Send them here. You get a horse and ride for the Half-Wheel. Don’t
spare the horse. Tell Slim Patterson what happened. Then you go to the
Circle S and tell Jim Carlin to bring his outfit to the Half-Wheel and
to send a man to the Lightnin’ for Jackson and his crew. We’ll all meet
at the Half-Wheel.”

Nelson ran from the house, and the old doctor turned to Reber.

“You’ll not ride tonight,” he said firmly.

“You try to stop me, Doc.”

“Hm-m-m-m! You’re a fool, Park. That wound isn’t healed up. You’ll wreck
your health, I tell you.”

“Bah! Wreck my health! I’m goin’ out to find that girl and to whip all
this scum out of the valley. I’ve stood all I’ll ever stand from Priest
and Silver.”

“It was a foolish thing, that sending of a woman,” said the old doctor.
He had known Park Reber for years, and felt privileged to speak his
mind.

“Mebbe,” said Reber shortly. “Mebbe not. She’s smart, Doc. I wish she
was my daughter. If things had turned out different I might have had a
girl or a boy of about her age.”

“Yes, that’s true.”

“And she spoiled Buck Priest’s shot,” said Reber. “He’s got no love for
her. I wonder where these men would take her? Not to any known place,
that’s a cinch. She’s their ace in the hole. I’d like to get my two
hands around Buck Priest’s throat and choke the truth from him. Oh, he
hates me, Doc!

“When he looks at me with his lop-sided grin, I feel that he’s gloating
over somethin’.”

“Be calm,” advised the doctor. “You’ll work yourself into a fever. Did
any doctor ever have such a patient to contend with? That meeting almost
ruined everything; and now you insist on getting excited and riding
helter-skelter over the hills in the dark! I ought to tie you down.”

“Here come some of my men,” said Reber. “Now you keep your tongue out of
it, Doc. I’m goin’, if I have to go on a stretcher.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

It was almost dark when Jack Silver led the way to the Two Bar X. There
were no lights in the ranchhouse. June dismounted and forced Jack to
knock on the door. But there was no answer to his knock. The door was
unlocked. Without any orders from June, Jack lighted the big lamp in the
main room.

“Where is everybody?” wondered June. “Is this the Two Bar X?”

“It’s the Two Bar X all right,” said Jack.

His heels were sore from the long walk in high-heeled boots and he
limped painfully.

June pointed at a door across the room.

“Open that,” she ordered.

Jack limped over and opened it.

It was a windowless inside room, evidently used as a bedroom by some one
who cared little for ventilation. There was a small lamp on the table,
and June ordered Jack to light it. She told him to remove the rope, and
then she backed into the main room, closing the door behind her.

At some time the room must have been used for storage purposes, because
there was a hasp and staple fastener. June quickly locked the door,
after which she sat down in a chair and drew the first calm breath she
had taken since Jack Silver had entered the deserted cabin. There was no
way for him to get out of that room. She took a small lamp and went on a
tour of investigation. The kitchen was fairly clean and there was plenty
of food.

She cooked a meal for herself, but was afraid to take any of it to
Silver. She had him under lock and intended keeping him. She felt sure
that the men of the Two Bar X would be coming back soon. Perhaps, she
thought, they heard of what happened to her and were searching for her.

And what a surprize it would be for them to come back and find her
there, and to find Jack Silver a prisoner. She washed the dishes and
went back to the main room. It was very quiet. A new moon was peeping
over the crest of the Tomahawk range, and she heard the distant howling
of a coyote.

She put Jack Silver’s gun on the table beside her and sat down to look
at some old magazines. Suddenly she heard the muffled tread of horses
walking and thought it was the boys of the ranch coming home. She ran to
a front window and looked out, but could see no one.

For several minutes she stood at the window, but the half-light was
baffling. She went back and sat down, after deciding that it had been
some loose horses. But something made her feel that she was being
watched. Perhaps it was sort of sixth sense.

She found herself unable to read. The two dull, uncurtained windows
seemed to stare at her like a pair of eyes. Why didn’t they curtain
their windows, she wondered? There were noises, too--queer noises.

Suddenly there came the scrape of leather sole on the porch, and the
door was flung open. June jerked forward, her hand on the big gun.

Two men stepped inside, looking queerly at her. It was McLeese, the
deposed foreman, and Chuck Bell, a big, raw-boned, square-faced cowboy
who worked for the Two Bar X. McLeese glanced at the hand and gun on the
table.

“Yuh got here, eh?” he said easily. “That’s fine. I was kinda late
gettin’ here for my stuff. Where’s all the boys?”

“I don’t know,” said June. “I haven’t been here long.”

“Uh-huh,” nodded McLeese. “I suppose they’re late gettin’ in. Well, I’ll
gather up my stuff and head back for town. Did yuh come out alone?”

“Two men brought me,” said June.

She didn’t want to tell McLeese anything, because she didn’t trust him.

“And went back and left yuh alone, eh? Dirty trick. This is a lonesome
place for a girl, Miss Meline. If yuh want us to, we’ll stay until the
boys come back.”

“No, I’m all right,” said June. “I’m not afraid.”

“Uh-huh.”

McLeese went past her and entered the kitchen, where she heard him
working around. Chuck Bell came over near the table and sat down in a
chair. He began rolling a smoke. June was entirely disarmed. She took
her hand away from the gun and picked up a magazine.

As quick as a flash Bell jerked sidewise out of his chair and secured
the gun. He leered at June as he shoved the gun inside the waist-band of
his overalls.

“All set, Mac,” he called. McLeese came from the kitchen, glanced
quickly toward the table and laughed throatily.

“That’s better than knockin’ her on the head,” he said. “By golly, she
had me worried for a minute. I don’t _sabe_ it yet, but that don’t worry
me much. Get a rope, Bell.”

Bell walked back to the front door and went out, while McLeese leaned
against the table and leered at June.

“Smart little lady, eh? Made a awful hit with Old Man Reber, didn’t yuh?
Came out here to catch Jack Silver!”

McLeese laughed scornfully. Bell came in with the rope and gave it to
McLeese, who lost no time in tying June’s hands and feet securely.

“Find me a handkerchief or a rag,” he said. “We’d better gag her. Yuh
never can tell who might come along. The road is guarded and all that,
but we’ll jist play safe.”

Bell produced a dirty bandanna handkerchief.

“Why don’tcha find out how much she knows, Mac?” he asked.

“Whatsa use? Anyway, we’ve got to get goin’, Chuck. Old Man Reber won’t
stop to ask many questions.”

McLeese twisted the handkerchief, forced June’s teeth apart and tied the
gag. As he was finishing the job, Bell examined the gun he had taken
from her. Suddenly he cried out:

“This is Jack Silver’s gun!”

“What’re yuh talkin’ about?” asked McLeese.

“I tell yuh it is, Mac! There’s the S carved on the bottom of the
handle. I’ve seen it lots of times. Where do you suppose she got it?”

McLeese looked at June, who was none too comfortable with the gag
between her teeth.

“Take that rag out and let her talk,” suggested Bell, but McLeese shook
his head.

“She’d lie about it, anyway.”

He indicated the closed door, where June had locked Silver.

“We’ll put her in there, Chuck. Grab her feet.”

McLeese grasping her by the shoulders and Chuck Bell taking her feet,
they carried her over to the door.

McLeese did not seem to think it strange that the hasp was fastened in
place. He held June with one arm while he unfastened it. He grasped her
again with both hands and kicked the door open.

And as the door flew open, something in the nature of a cyclone seemed
to strike them. Jack Silver sprang from inside the room, striking Chuck
Bell with his shoulder.

June’s feet struck the floor heavily, and McLeese jerked away, letting
her fall to the floor as Chuck Bell went spinning across the room. Jack
went to his hands and knees, but was up like a flash and into the
startled McLeese before he could draw a gun.

He swung a right hand at McLeese’s jaw, but the blow was too high. It
caught McLeese on the bridge of the nose and knocked him to his haunches
against the wall. Silver turned quickly to meet the rush of Chuck Bell,
and they grappled. It was evident that Bell was so dizzy from his
spinning that he forgot to draw a gun; but not so McLeese. He sagged
back, his broken nose painting his face with gore, and whipped out his
gun and fired upward at Silver.

The report of the gun was echoed by a crash of glass, and the room was
plunged in darkness. McLeese’s bullet had smashed the lamp, missing Jack
Silver’s ear by a fraction of an inch.

Silver whirled Bell around, broke his hold and flung him toward McLeese.
It was evident that Bell went down on top of McLeese, and Silver feared
for the safety of June, who was only a few feet from McLeese.

He stepped in and tried to drag her out of the mélée, but at that moment
one of the men crashed into him, knocking him off his feet. He went
rolling against the table, and a man fell over him. Silver struggled to
his feet and met the rush of one of them.

In that darkness it was impossible for him to see which one it was. They
crashed to the floor, fighting like a pair of animals, but Jack managed
to tear himself away and slid along the floor.

The front door opened, and for a moment he could see the silhouette of a
man, etched blackly against the moonlight.

Came the crashing report of a revolver in the room, and the silhouette
sagged down heavily.

The flash of the gun had blinded Silver, and the powder smoke choked
him. One of these men had shot the other, thinking it was Jack Silver.
He heard this man crawling across the floor, but did not try to stop
him. Then he heard him run through the kitchen, slam the door shut and
go running across the yard.

Silver ran to the front door. The man who had left the house mounted his
horse and spurred toward the gate. Silver turned the man over in the
doorway, and the white face and staring eyes of McLeese looked up at
him. He found McLeese’s gun where he had dropped it on the porch, and
went back in the house. He secured the lamp in the kitchen, lighted it
and went into the main room.

June was still lying where they had dropped her. Silver closed the front
door and came back to her. It was a simple task for him to take the gag
and ropes off her and help her to a chair, where she sagged wearily. The
gag had cut her lips, and there was blood on her wrists, cut by the
ropes.

Silver said nothing. His face was bruised and one sleeve of his shirt
was almost torn off. June stared at him, panting nervously, as he calmly
rolled a cigaret with steady fingers.

“Why don’t you say something?” she asked, almost hysterically.

He looked at her, a half-smile on his lips.

“I dunno,” he said simply. “Don’t seem to be much to say.”

“Well, what is it all about? Oh, why don’t you get excited? You sit
there and roll a cigaret just as though nothing had happened. Who--which
one did you shoot?”

“I didn’t shoot,” he said slowly. “Bell shot McLeese. Mebbe he thought
it was me. He didn’t have any cause to shoot Mac, that I know about. The
door over there was too thick for me to hear much that was said, and I’m
wonderin’ why they had you tied up.”

June shook her head. She didn’t know.

“Didn’t they tell yuh why?”

“Oh, I don’t know what they talked about. Everything is so mixed up.”

“Yeah, that’s right.”

He lighted his cigaret and inhaled deeply.

“It seems to me,” he said smiling quietly, “that you’ve kinda had a hard
time gettin’ started on yore new job.”

“Why did you have me kidnaped?” she asked.

“Me? Lord love yuh, I never did.”

“I’d like to believe you, but--”

“Why should I?”

“Well, I--I--you hate Park Reber.”

“Yo’re not Park Reber.”

“I--I work for him.”

“Lotsa folks work for him, ma’am, and I never kidnaped any of them.”

June bit her lip and studied Jack Silver, who looked at her frankly. He
did not look like a man who would kidnap a woman. There was nothing of
the sneak about him.

“What do you do for a living?” she asked bluntly.

“Trappin’, mostly. I had a small herd of cattle a few years ago, but
Park Reber’s men killed ’em off. He didn’t want me to get a start. In
the winter I trap from here over into the Clear Valley side of the
range. I make a good livin’.”

“What do you do with the cattle you steal from Park Reber?”

It was a very blunt question. Jack Silver’s eyes did not shift, but
narrowed slightly, and for several moments he did not speak. Then--

“I’ve never stolen a cow from Park Reber.”

“That doesn’t check up with what I’ve heard, Mr. Silver.”

“Probably not, ma’am, but it doesn’t matter. I’ve eaten Diamond R beef.
He killed off my cattle, didn’t he? When I needed a piece of beef real
bad, I took it. Reber hates me. He says he hates me because I steal his
cattle, but he’s a liar.”

“Is it because he wants all the valley?”

“No, it’s because I’ve got Cheyenne blood in me. You’ve heard his
story?”

“About the Indians killing his wife?”

“Stealin’ her, ma’am. Nobody knows how she died--if she did die.”

“I’m sorry,” said June simply.

“About my blood?” Silver smiled bitterly. “I can’t help it.”

He got to his feet and walked to a window and he looked out. Finally he
came back and sat down.

“I don’t see where your blood would make any difference,” said June.

“Don’t yuh? Yo’re a white woman; would you marry a half-breed?”

“Why, I--I never thought of that.”

“You wouldn’t. Perhaps there are white women who would, but they’d not
be the kind I’d want. I don’t want to marry an Injun girl--so there yuh
are. I’m only half good enough to marry a white woman, and I’ve got too
much white blood to marry an Indian. Everybody hates a breed. Oh, yes
they do. Even the Injuns hate a breed.

“Do yuh know what they say about a half-breed? They say he inherits the
vices of both sides and the virtues of neither. Mebbe that’s right.”

“What about Buck Priest--did Reber steal his cattle?”

“I think so, ma’am. But this ain’t lettin’ us in on the secret of
things. Why do yuh suppose McLeese and Bell tied you up. Who kidnapped
yuh, and what was their object? I’m gettin’ kinda anxious. Bell rode
away, and he might come back in force. I’d hate to have yuh penned in
here with me if Reber’s men try to catch me. I’ve got my own gun and the
one McLeese had. If Reber found me here with you he’d hang
me--especially if he found McLeese dead on the porch.”

“Then you’d better go away,” said June. “I can get along all right, I
guess.”

“I guess yuh can’t. After them fellers tied yuh up and tried to lock yuh
in that room? We’ll find a horse to ride and I’ll take yuh over to my
place. At least you’ll be safe over there.”

June shook her head quickly.

“No, I’ll stay here.”

“Then I’ll stay with yuh.”

“And get hung for being here?”

“Mebbe. I’d sure hate myself all the rest of my life if I left yuh here
alone and anythin’ happened to yuh.”

“Why would you care?”

“I’m half white.”

“And you’d do this, even after I forced you to lead me here with a rope
around your neck.”

“That wasn’t anythin’. You didn’t pull it tight,” he smiled at her and
went to the front door.

“We’ve got to kinda make this place bull-tight,” he said. “Yore name’s
June, ain’t it? I heard it was. I’ll call yuh June. It’s easier to say
than ma’am. My name’s Jack. Prob’ly be mud before mornin’.”

“Mr. Reber will come looking for me,” said June.

“Yea-a-ah, and he’ll find me,” laughed Jack. “But I’ve got a hunch that
Mr. Reber is goin’ to have a hard time gettin’ here.”

“They spoke about the road being guarded. Did they mean against Mr.
Reber?”

“Might be. We’ll just wait and see what happens.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Buck Priest and his men went back to the ranch and packed two horses
with blankets and enough food to last them several days. It was about
dark when they headed southeast toward the Porcupine hills. Priest’s
idea was to travel along the Porcupine for a way and then turn south
toward the Circle S.

As far as he knew there had been no misbranding of cattle. Therefore he
was of the opinion that the rustlers were moving a bunch of his stock
toward the West Fork pass. If Park Reber were stealing cattle, that was
the pass he would take them through to Clear Valley.

There was just enough moonlight to enable them to see to travel by. Buck
hoped to find the rustler’s camp, but after traveling far along the
Porcupine he decided to head toward the Half-Wheel, which was almost due
west of where they were now. He reasoned that if the rustlers knew that
O’Steen had escaped wounded they would possibly drop the herd and head
for the Half-Wheel.

In the meantime Park Reber had gathered a dozen riders and was also
heading down the valley. Nelson had told him what the two masked men had
said about the road’s being dangerous, and Reber was not the man not to
heed a warning. He left the road a short distance out of Tomahawk and
took to the open hills where there would be no danger of an ambush.

“We’ll head straight toward Jack Silver’s place,” he told his men. “Buck
Priest is in with Silver on this deal, that’s a cinch, so there’s no use
going to his place.”

“And if it’s a scheme to run a lot of cattle out of the valley they’ll
use the Trapper Creek pass,” declared Nelson. “I’d like to notch my
sight on the jasper that killed old Sam Herd.”

“There’ll be plenty of chances before this time tomorrow night,” said
Reber. “I’ll clean this valley of every rustler or quit the cow business
myself.”

The men knew the hills well, and they were able to make good time. Reber
was suffering considerably with his shoulder, but he gritted his teeth
and led the way.

There were no lights showing at the Half-Wheel when Buck Priest led his
men down to the road past the ranch. For quite a while they sat on their
horses at a little distance from the ranchhouse, debating just what to
do.

“We’ll go on,” decided Buck Priest. “Before daylight we can be in the
West Fork pass, and if they run those cows into that pass we’ll show the
dirty thieves a merry time.”

“Jist lemme get a sight of the fellers that leaded up O’Steen,” said
Rowdy. “I’m shore honin’ for a chance at ’em.”

“Daylight will tell the tale,” said Priest. “They’ll try and run ’em
through early in the mornin’. I wouldn’t be surprized to find the hills
around the Two Bar X full of my cows.”

They were about two miles south of the Half-Wheel, traveling along the
road through a narrow defile in the heavy brush, when a rifle spat fire
almost in front of them. It was so sudden and unexpected that the four
riders whirled in a mass, trying to control their horses. From several
places in the brush came orange-colored flashes, followed by the angry
spat of rifle shots. Buck Priest’s horse went down in a heap, pinning
Buck to the ground.

Ken Mader’s horse fell, but Ken flung himself free and began shooting
from the ground. For several moments it was a nightmare of rearing,
kicking horses and sporadic flashing of rifle and revolver shots. Mader
went down on his face.

Rowdy’s horse was shot from under him, but he managed to regain his feet
and mount behind Dick Leesom and spur the frightened horse into a gallop
back up the road. Dick had been shot through the side and was unable to
control his horse or to shoot a gun.

A flurry of rifle shots followed them, but the bullets buzzed far over
their heads.

Not one of the bushwhackers came in sight. As far as they were concerned
they never existed. Buck Priest had dropped flat on his back to escape
the hail of lead. His leg was pinned beneath his dead horse, and it was
impossible for him to extricate it. He could see the white face of Ken
Mader in the moonlight, and he cursed Park Reber and his men.

He tried to draw his leg loose from beneath the horse, but the pain
forced him to desist. He was sure the leg was broken. He swore bitterly,
feeling sure that they had run into the rustler’s ambush.

Back in the hills, only a mile away from the road, were Park Reber and
his men. They had heard the shooting, but the echoes were so confusing
that none of them could tell where the shooting was taking place.

“Sounded like a battle all right,” declared Reber. “We’d better head for
the road, I think. Unless I’m mistaken, that’s where the shooting came
from.”

They traveled due east, striking the road a few hundred yards north of
where the ambush had been laid. They did not see Leesom and Dow, who had
gone past the spot, and were heading north. But they did find Dow’s hat
in the road. It was a black Stetson, fairly new, but not marked with
name or initial.

“Somebody goin’ plenty fast,” said one of the men. “That’s hat’s too
good for a puncher to throw it away.”

“No way to tell which way he was goin’,” drawled a cowboy.

“We’ll go south and take a chance,” said Reber. And then they found Buck
Priest, pinned down by his dead horse, and Ken Mader lying dead beside
his dead horse. The men dismounted. Buck Priest recognized them and spat
a curse at Park Reber.

“Got yuh, eh?” grunted Reber.

“Mader’s dead,” said one of the men.

Reber gave them orders to lift the horse off Priest’s leg.

“Well, you’ve got me, Reber,” said Priest. “My leg’s busted. I hope
yo’re satisfied, you dirty cow thief!”

“I will be satisfied, yuh can bet on that,” said Reber. “Yo’re all
through in this valley, Buck Priest--you and yore S Bar P outfit. When I
get my hands on Jack Silver I’ve made a clean sweep.”

“When yuh do,” gritted Priest.

“Oh, I will,” rasped Reber. “I’ve started out to clean up this valley.”

“Clean! It’ll never be clean as long as _you_ live. You killed O’Steen
today--yore men did. He saw yuh stealin’ my cows. And yuh--oh what’s the
use? You’ve got the best hand, Reber. Go ahead and do what yuh want to.”

“I never killed O’Steen,” denied Reber.

“Yore men did.”

“Did they? I didn’t know it. Where’s June Meline?”

“That female fiddler?”

“Yeah, that female fiddler! Where is she?”

“I heard somebody stole her.”

“Oh, yuh did, eh? I reckon yuh didn’t need to _hear_ it. Some of you
boys lift him on a horse. We’ll take him along with us and settle his
case at the Two Bar X.”

They lifted Buck Priest to a saddle, and he cursed them for hurting his
broken leg. Perhaps they were none too gentle.

“Want to rope him on, Park?” asked one of the men.

“What for? If he falls off he can’t run away, can he?”

Two of the cowboys rode double and one of them led Buck Priest’s horse.
The jolting of the horse was misery to Priest, but he clamped his jaws
tightly and held all his weight on his right stirrup.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The first faint touch of dawn streaked the old pole corrals and the
stables of the Two Bar X. Huddled in a chair beside the table in the
main room sat June Meline, wrapped in a blanket, asleep. At one of the
front windows stood Jack Silver. He had watched all night for the return
of Bell, who he was sure would come back. The body of McLeese still lay
where it fell.

He turned his head and saw June looking at him. She had slept for
several hours.

“How are yuh feelin’, June?” he asked.

“All right, Jack. Oh, I must have slept a long time. Why, it’s morning!”

“Just about. We’ll get some breakfast and then I’ll rope a couple of
horses. I dunno what became of my horse, but I think they took him away.
We’re goin’ back to Tomahawk, June. Somethin’ is wrong out here.”

She nodded and got up from her chair.

“I’ll get the breakfast, Jack. I can cook.”

“I’ll betcha,” he smiled. “Yo’re quite a woman, June. I don’t blame
Reber for likin’ yuh. I never knew that women had the nerve you’ve got.
After what you went through since yuh left Tomahawk yesterday, it’s a
wonder you’ve got any nerve left.”

“But I’ve been frightened,” confessed June. “If you had said ‘boo!’ to
me yesterday I’d have dropped your gun.”

“Mebbe not,” said Jack smiling. “That gun is too easy on the trigger to
take any chances. I might have just booed a bullet into my nervous
system.”

Jack laughed and turned back to the window, leaning forward tensely.
There were cattle drifting past the rear of the corrals and sheds--a
compact mass of moving animals heading northwest toward the West Fork
pass. Jack stepped to the door and opened it enough to give him a
farther view down the valley. As far as he could see down the valley
there were cattle surging ahead like a brown wave.

Jack shut the door quickly. A man had slipped through the corral-fence
at the corner of a shed, a man carrying a rifle in his hand.

“What is it, Jack?” asked June anxiously.

“The big steal!” he exclaimed. “I know the answer now, June. Reber’s own
men are stealing from him--taking a big herd over the West Fork pass.
That’s why they stole yuh, don’t yuh see? They didn’t want anybody here
to see ’em. That’s why there wasn’t anybody here, June.

“That’s why they’ve blocked the road against Reber. McLeese had this
framed before Reber fired him. God knows how many of Reber’s men are in
on it. They’re tryin’ to send ’em over the pass before anybody can get
out here to catch ’em.”

“But--but they know we’re here,” panted June.

“They sure do,” said Jack bitterly. “Keep out of line with the windows.
I’ve got the doors fastened and I’ve got two guns. But our best chance
is to lay low. We know too much for them to let us get out alive, June.
Their plans were upset when Reber sent you out here.”

“But won’t they be in such a hurry to get the cattle over the pass that
they’ll leave us alone?”

June’s answer came in the form of a bullet, which smashed out a pane of
glass and thudded into the rear wall of the room. Jack drew June back
against the wall, and they edged their way to the front of the room.

“Flat on the floor under the windows,” said Jack. “They’ll not shoot
that low.”

A shower of glass sprayed over them when a bullet tore through the
window casing.

“Shootin’ wild,” said Jack easily. “Listen to the cattle.”

They could hear the dull rumble of the moving herd, the soft bawling of
calves.

“They’re movin’ a mighty big herd,” said Jack. “It sure will hit Park
Reber hard.”

“You ought to be glad,” said June wearily.

“I wonder if I am? If it was anybody but his own men I might.”

“You believe in loyalty, Jack?”

“If yuh mean trustin’ a friend or an employee--yes.”

“You’ve been to school?”

Jack nodded shortly.

“Six years, June--in Cheyenne.”

“Who sent you there?”

“I don’t know. I don’t even know who paid for it. I was sent from the
reservation when I was about eight years old. I never went back there,
June. I was fourteen when I came here. I worked for Buck Priest quite a
while, and then I built me a place on Trapper Creek. I was goin’ to be a
cowman, and I had a good start, but Park Reber’s men killed off my
cattle. I’ve been in the valley eleven years.”

“You are twenty-five years old, Jack?”

“I think so.”

“Who was your father?”

He looked queerly at her. Another bullet smashed through the kitchen
window and ricocheted off the stove.

“I don’t know who he was,” said Jack. He ran his fingers along the
barrel of his six-shooter. “No one would tell me after I came back from
school. They said I was the son of a squaw-man.”

Jack sat up with his shoulders against the corner of the room. Some one
had come on the porch and was near the door. Jack leaned sidewise and
sent a bullet angling through the center panel. His shot was echoed by a
yelp and a curse.

“They’re still in there!” yelled a voice.

Bullets came through the door about two feet above the floor and more
came through the smashed windows. The opposite wall of the room was
beginning to show signs of wear. A bullet smashed the lamp, causing a
small shower of kerosene.

Some one was trying to open the kitchen door. Jack snaked along the wall
to the kitchen entrance and sent a bullet through the door just above
the knob. He heard a sharp cry and turned to see June, one hand across
her face. She had tried to follow him.

He rolled back to her and drew her back under the window. A bullet had
come through just below the sill, and had scored her temple just enough
to break the skin and raise a blue welt. She was dazed, bewildered. She
tried to get to her feet, but Jack pulled her down.

“You’re all right, June,” he told her. “It’s not serious. Stay down,
girl!”

He held to her with one hand. There was smoke drifting in through the
broken window--too much smoke to be caused by the shooting. Jack sniffed
at it.

Wood smoke! They had fired the ranchhouse!

He could hear the flames crackling now, and the smoke was getting
heavier. June was recovering, but it seemed that the injury had broken
her nerve. She began crying softly and Jack patted her on the arm.

“It’s all right, June,” he told her. “Don’t cry. You’ve got to hang on
to yore nerve, girl. They’ve set the house on fire. It’s do or die, I
guess. We can’t stay here and burn to death.”

The wall was getting hot. There was a little breeze, and the seasoned
old building was as dry as tinder. June blinked at him through her
tears. She understood what he was saying.

“We’ll crawl to the kitchen door,” he told her. “I’ll open the door and
jump out. Mebbe I can drive ’em back so you can get away. It’s our only
chance. They might let yuh go and figure on catchin’ yuh. I’ll stop ’em
as long as I can, June.”

They slid along the wall to the kitchen.

The shooting had stopped. Jack knew they were merely waiting for them to
try to make a break. Beside the door they stopped and Jack held out his
hand to her.

“Good-by, June. You stay here until I tell yuh when to come out--if I
last that long.”

“Good-by, Jack.” June’s face was white and drawn. “I forced you into
this. If it hadn’t been for me you’d be free.”

“Tha’s all right; it was a mistake, June. It’s all in the game. I reckon
I’d forgive you for anythin’. Good-by.”

He raised up from his haunches, grasped the door with his left hand and
gave it a jerk. It stuck fast. He dropped the gun in his holster and
grasped the door with both hands but it refused to open.

“Stay here, June,” he panted, dropping to his knees and crawled back to
the front door.

The room was full of smoke now.

He went to the door, got to his feet and tried to open it. He could
force it open about two inches--enough to see that a rope ran from the
knob to a porch-post.

A bullet smashed through the paneling and raked him along the forearm.
He dropped to his knees, coughing from the smoke, and crawled back to
June. His left forearm and hand were covered with blood.

“They’ve locked us in, June,” he said. “If we try to get through a
window they’ll riddle us.”

June merely stared at him, her mind refusing to work.

“You mean, we can’t get out--we’ve got to burn?”

Jack was staring at a spot in the center of the floor. There was a metal
ring sunk in the floor, and beyond it were two hinges--the roothouse
trap-door.

He sprawled over and dug the ring loose. With a heave he opened the
trap, and the odor of musty old vegetables filled the room. An old
ladder led down to the bottom. June went down first. There was more
shooting, but they could not hear the bullets now.

Jack left the trap open to give them a little light. The roothouse was
about six feet deep and of about the width of the kitchen. It was cool
down there, and no smoke penetrated. They took deep breaths to rid their
lungs of the smoke.

On one side was an accumulation of old boxes and barrels. Jack lighted a
match and almost shouted with joy. Behind those old boxes and barrels
was a stairway which led to an outside roothouse door.

He flung the boxes aside, clearing the disused stairway, a prayer in his
heart that the door might not be nailed down. They could hear the
snapping of the flames now, the hoarse shouts of men, the crackle of
guns.

Jack put his shoulder against the old slanting door and lifted enough to
find that it was not fastened down.

“We’ll beat ’em yet, June,” he panted. “The fire seems to be mostly at
the front of the house yet. We can stay here for a few minutes.”

June was swaying sidewise, and before Jack could spring to her
assistance she had fainted. He lifted her up and held her in his arms.
In falling she had struck her head against the corner of a box, cutting
it badly.

He tore the muffler from around his neck and bound it around her head.
Then he picked her up in his arms and staggered up the old steps, where
he hunched in as low as possible, bracing his right shoulder against the
door.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Park Reber did not lead his men straight for the Two Bar X, but took the
left-hand road and headed for the Circle S, where he decided to pick up
Jim Carlin and his men. He intended sending one man from there to the
Lightning to get the assistance of Nort Jackson and his crew. Reber was
going to have enough men to comb every inch of the country.

It was nearing daylight when they rode into the Circle S. The ranch was
deserted.

“Mebbe they’re chasin’ rustlers already,” said one of the men.

“More likely out doin’ a little rustlin’,” said Buck Priest grimly. His
face was the color of ashes, his left leg dangling uselessly from
outside the stirrup. The old man was living on his nerve now. Park Reber
scowled at him, but said nothing in reply to Priest’s sarcasm.

“Shall we go to the Lightnin’?” asked a cowboy.

“No,” said Reber shortly, and headed for the Two Bar X.

The men were tired, sleepy, hungry; they were willing to go anywhere to
stop for a while. They did not go back to the road, but cut across the
hills. Daylight came swiftly, and the sun was painting the tops of the
hills when they struck the road about a mile below the Two Bar X.

And here the road was a mass of cow tracks. Reber leaned forward in his
saddle, pointing at them.

“The trail of the rustlers,” he said. “They’re headin’ for the West Fork
pass.”

“Listen!” Nelson threw up his hand.

From far up the road they could hear the rattle of rifle shots.

“My ----!” exclaimed Reber. “The boys of the Two Bar X are tryin’ to
stop ’em! Come on!”

Some one lashed Buck Priest’s horse across the rump with a rope, and the
animal almost unseated the suffering old man. He gritted his teeth and
rode along with them. The men were riding with rifles in their hands
now.

About three hundred yards short of the Two Bar X, the road topped an
elevation around the point of a hill and, as they swung around this
point, Park Reber, riding at the head of his men, drew rein.

The whole front end of the ranchhouse was enveloped in flames, and
beyond the burning house the hills were full of cattle. They saw a man
running away from the corrals. He mounted a horse and headed for the
cattle.

A rifle bullet struck the ground in front of Reber’s horse and buzzed
angrily away. The riders separated like a covey of quail. Another bullet
thudded against a horse, and its rider flung himself free as the horse
reared up and fell backward.

Cowboys were dismounting as swiftly as possible, letting their horses
go; then they ran ahead, taking advantage of every bit of cover. Rifles
began to crack as the Reber men searched the corrals and sheds with
bullets.

Mounted men began riding from behind the stable, heading toward the
cattle.

“Get yore horses!” yelled Reber. “They’re headin’ for the pass.”

The men continued to shoot at the retreating cowboys. One of them
pitched sidewise off his horse, and his horse came back toward the
stable. Reber’s men mounted swiftly and swept down on the ranch.

A man ran from the stable-door, trying to get around the corner, but a
hail of bullets cut him down. He went flat on his side, rolled over and
fired one shot in return. Park Reber jerked back in his saddle and slid
to the ground.

At that same moment one of the men yelled warningly. The outside
roothouse door was flung open and out came Jack Silver, carrying June
Meline across one arm. He staggered, flung up his right hand to shoot at
them, but tripped over an old water-bucket and fell flat.

Several cowboys threw themselves upon him before he could get up, and
held him tightly. They yanked him to his feet, and others took charge of
June.

“Well, yuh got me, I guess,” panted Jack.

“I guess we have!” snorted a cowboy. “Yo’re all through, you dirty
half-breed.”

Jack shut his lips tightly.

“Reber’s been hit hard,” said one of the men. “That feller down at the
stable got him.”

They led Jack around to where Reber was lying. But Jack paid no
attention to Reber; he was staring at old Buck Priest, who was barely
able to sit in his saddle.

Park Reber had the men lift him to a sitting position. He looked at Jack
Silver closely.

“I swore I’d get you, Silver,” he said. “I started out last night to
clean out the valley. I don’t know how badly I’m hurt, but it’s bad
enough. But you’ve stolen your last cow, kidnaped your last woman. If
you’ve got any prayers to say you better say ’em.”

“I’m not prayin’,” said Jack coldly. “I never stole yore cows and I
never kidnaped any woman.”

“What else could yuh say?” cried Reber, and then to his men, “Run a rope
over the ridge-pole of the stable.”

The men hurried to do his bidding. Old Buck Priest had heard Reber’s
order, and it seemed to amuse him greatly.

“Goin’ to hang the lad, eh?” he laughed. “Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! That’s good!
Goin’ to die with that on yore dirty soul, eh? It’s like yuh, Reber.”

He turned to Jack, who was being held by two men.

“Reber’s men bushwhacked me last night, Jack. They killed Ken Mader.
Yesterday afternoon they killed O’Steen.”

“You lie!” declared Reber weakly. “You’re tryin’ to turn it around. You
stole my cattle and my men caught yuh.”

“And yore men shot Sam Herd yesterday, Priest,” declared Nelson.

“Lies!” panted Buck. “All lies! We didn’t know Herd was dead until we
met yuh at the forks of the road, Nelson.”

“The rope’s ready, Park,” called one of the men.

One of the cowboys threw a noose around Jack’s neck, but he did not
quiver. He was probably the coolest man in the crowd.

“Have you said yore prayer?” asked Reber.

Jack shut his lips tightly.

“All right,” said Reber weakly.

“I wish you’d wait until June Meline recovers,” said Jack. “She might
have somethin’ to say.”

“Your time is up, Silver.”

“Yuh better not hang him,” said Buck Priest. “You’ll be sorry, Reber.
Ain’t there nothin’ that can save him?”

“Not a thing, Priest.”

“All right, Reber. Go ahead and hang him. Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! Hang him, you
dirty old pup! Hang yore own son, and be ---- to yuh! Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!”

In spite of his weakness, Reber jerked forward, staring at Buck Priest.
Jack Silver stumbled forward, his eyes on the curiously twisted features
of the old cattleman. Reber tore his gaze away and looked at Jack
Silver.

“You lie, Priest!” he said.

“I don’t lie! He’s your son, Park. His mother died when he was born and
he was nursed by a squaw. Ask him who his father was--he don’t know, I
tell yuh!”

Jack shook his head.

“I kept track of him, Park,” said Priest. “I shipped him to school and
paid for it. I wanted an ace in the hole. You’ve always wondered if
there was a child. Look at him, Reber. He’s yore own flesh and
blood--and you’re goin’ to hang him! Let’s get it over with, Reber. I
want to see you hang yore own son.”

Reber shut his eyes, and after a few moments the tears trickled down his
cheeks. The wound was sapping his strength. It was a long way to a
doctor, and he knew he couldn’t live till one came.

One of his men came bustling into the crowd.

“Hey,” he shouted, “that fellow down by the stable is Bell, of this
ranch, and the one on the hill up there is Bob Cliff, of the Lightnin’!
What does it mean?”

“It means that Reber’s own men planned to clean him out,” said Jack
Silver. “They kidnaped June Meline. I found her and brought her here.
Last night Bell killed McLeese. He was on the porch and he’s burned up
by this time. I think you’ll find that the Circle X, Lightnin’ and Two
Bar X outfits were makin’ a big steal, but circumstances blocked ’em.”

Reber opened his eyes and stared at Jack.

“Is that all true, Jack?” he asked.

“The girl’s awake,” burst in one of the men.

They brought her over to Reber. She saw the rope around Jack’s neck.

“He--he saved me!” she said hoarsely to Reber. “Jack Silver wasn’t to
blame. It was your own men. Oh, you’ve been hurt again!”

Reber leaned back and his face was very white now.

“Come in close, boys,” he said weakly. “Listen to what I’m sayin’. No
time to write. Jack Silver is my son. Everything I own belongs to him. I
think Buck Priest taught him to hate me. I--I didn’t kill off his herd
of cattle. Mebbe my men did it. But it’s all right now. He owns this
valley and everything else I have.

“Get Buck Priest to a doctor. I don’t hate him any more. He gave me back
my son. Jack--come closer. This--is--June. She’s--fine. I--I--”

His head fell forward on his chest.

                   *       *       *       *       *

There was little left of the old ranchhouse when Jack Silver and June
Meline stood beside the body of Park Reber, who seemed to be smiling in
his sleep. Nelson came up to Jack and held out his hand.

“You’ll have to hire new crews, Jack,” he said. “I imagine a lot of
Diamond R men went over the West Fork pass this mornin’.”

“Let ’em go,” said Jack. “There’s been enough killin’.”

He put his good arm around June and they went down toward the stables,
where the men were rigging a stretcher to carry Buck Priest back to his
ranch.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the May 15, 1927 issue of
Adventure magazine.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE VALLEY OF LOST HERDS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
